---
source_pdf: "https://docs.google.com/document/d/14XdN3wNTOTHgoMnsrTwIO7w02qAyMWH_/edit?usp=drivesdk&ouid=115282597639191279335&rtpof=true&sd=true"
drive_folder: "Portfolio/Amae"
type: portfolio
company: Amae
ingested: 2025-12-23
original_filename: "AmaeHealth_Principles_of_Clinical_Design.docx"
---

> **Original:** [View Original PDF](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14XdN3wNTOTHgoMnsrTwIO7w02qAyMWH_/edit?usp=drivesdk&ouid=115282597639191279335&rtpof=true&sd=true)

Amae Health Principles of Clinical Approach

Synopsis: Amae Health aims to integrate several well proven approaches to the holistic care of individuals with serious mental illness (SMI). Individually, each approach has been validated through rigorous research and has been shown to improve a range of outcomes. The innovative aspect of Amae’s approach is the seamless integration of the approaches within a value-based model of care delivery.

Integration of Conceptual Approaches to Treatment: At its core, the Amae approach can be conceptualized as the integration of two wholistic approaches to care delivery Intensive Case Management for SMI and Whole Person Care. An overview of each approach is outlined below followed by Amae model of integration.

Intensive Case management (ICM), also known as Assertive Community Care, was developed in the 1970’s during a phase of rapid deinstitutionalization of SMI patients and has become a standard of care for many government and large intuitional mental health care systems. The core structure of ICM is a multidisciplinary team approach using case workers, nurse care managers, peer supports and medical providers to develop close follow-up and comprehensive treatment plans. The approach has strong evidence supporting a reduction in inpatient hospital stays, especially for the highest utilizers of psychiatric hospital beds1. ICM can include a range of features and Amae aims to include a wide range of features which have been shown to reduce admission rates and increase engagement and quality of life measures. Individually, these features have been shown to reduce hospital readmission rates by 13-37%2 and include 1) psychoeducation targeting disease management, 2) structured assessments of discharge needs, 3) medication education/reconciliation, 4) post-discharge telephone follow-up, 5) efforts to ensure timely follow-up appointments, 6) home visits and peer support, 7)  transition manager and communication between in-patient and out-patient teams. Amae will implement an ICM as a core platform to ensure engagement

Whole Person Care (WPC) has emerged over the past decade under various names/models. Examples include the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Whole Health Program3, Integrative Heath, and Advanced Primary Care4. These programs address current shortcomings in the conventional models of primary care delivery and aim to integrate physical, mental, and spiritual dimensions of patients towards better health outcomes and quality of life. The approach aims to break the narrow focus on reductionist dimensions of physical health that characterized current primary care practice, i.e. high volume of care focused on managing medication prescriptions without any attempt to address underlying factors the drive health problems. A simple example of the current quagmire is the common practice of prescribing multiple layers of medications to address hypertension and diabetes without any attempt to address lifestyle factors that influence pathophysiology. In large population samples, WPC approaches have been shown to lower costs by 12-24%, improve health outcomes, and increase patient satisfaction and engagement3,5–7. WPC approaches include a strong emphasis on the need for mental health care but focus on common mental health issues like depressions and anxiety. In contrast, a central Amae innovation is the extension of WPC concepts to SMI populations using intensive case management methods as described next.

The Amae Approach: A central feature of Amae’s model is the full integration of ICM and WPC approaches. Both ICM and WPC include an emphasis on the importance of including both primary and mental health care into overall treatment plans, but neither approach explicitly builds treatment teams that fully integrate the two components of care.  Amae is firmly anchored in the idea that there is no distinction between mental and physical health. Individuals with SMI have substantially higher mortality rates and high incidence of medical comorbidities, especially cardiometabolic disorders8,9. Emerging basic science evidence shows that molecular genetic pathways of inflammation are casually associated with psychiatric disorders10. Complicating the situation is the fact that most first-line psychiatric medications for SMI exacerbate cardiometabolic comorbidities. In contrast to conventional ICM and WPC approaches, which aim to facilitate coordination between primary and mental health care teams, the Amae approach will directly integrate primary care providers into the multidisciplinary treatment teams. Further, Amae Health Coaches, will be essential team members who will focus on lifestyle changes across the physical-mental health spectrum including diet, exercise, sleep habits, financial health, social health, and treatment compliance. We are confident that our integrated model of ICM and WPC will deliver at least additive benefits regarding the physical and mental health outcomes referenced above and are optimistic that the fully integrated approach will show synergistic benefits beyond what the individual approaches can achieve.

Clinical Treatment Model: The Amae approach conceptualizes treatment as a pathway from severe decompensation (hospitalization) through stabilization and recovery. The treatment design defines four phases: Engage – Stabilize – Recover – Prosper. The Engage Phase focuses on establishing relationships with patients and providers in emergency departments and inpatient units of local hospitals. The goal is to identify high utilizers of care and transition them from inpatient to intensive outpatient treatment for stabilization and recovery. The Stabilization and Recovery Phases will use medical care, case management, health coaching and peer support to target the comprehensive psychosocial needs of each individual including often unmet needs related to social determinants of health and social and family relationships. The Prosper Phase will consolidate treatment gains and focus on establishing meaningful life goals that provide long-term stability by addressing basic human drives related to purpose and relationships.

The treatment goals and phase progression will be accomplished through high-touch, intensive care management approach that will fully integrate primary care and mental health treatment within a multidisciplinary team. The model relies heavily on the availability of drop-in centers that provide a combination of resources including health clinic, exercise facility, social center, and temporary housing for respite care. The treatment teams and drop-in facilities are described in more detail below.

Treatment Team: The multidisciplinary treatment team will provide stabilization and progression through recovery with a combination of medications and psychosocial interventions. The teams will include standard ICM model of a psychiatrist, nurse care manager, social case worker and peer support specialist. In addition, the Amae teams will include a nurse practitioner primary care provider and an Amae Health Coach. The Amae Health Coach represents a particularly unique member of the team and plays a central role in stabilization and recovery. Amae Health Coaches represent a merger of physical trainer, dietician, occupational therapy assistant and ‘life coach’. Health Coaches will be associate or bachelor level employees and will be trained in Amae’s structured approach to address all aspects of a patient’s life and will provide intensive efforts to implement lifestyle changes during the engagement and stabilization periods of the program. Conventional mental health approaches ignore the powerful stabilizing effects of healthy daily habits including diet, exercise, sleep and regular social interactions. Whereas conventional treatment sees medications as the primary focus of treatment, the Amae’s approach recognizes the often-necessary role of medications but conceptualizes them as an adjunct to facilitate behavioral change in lifestyle habits, which are the critical element in recovery. As such, the health coaches will include a focus on medication adherence in the larger context of holistic changes in each individual’s life.

Drop-in Centers: The brick-and-motor drop-in centers are a critical feature of the Amae approach and provide a missing feature that limits conventional approaches to comprehensive mental health treatment. Outpatient treatment models lack the ability to provide the physical and social structure that are powerful factors in the stabilization of SMI symptoms. Even partial hospitalization programs and intensive outpatient programs provide a limited range of resources that do not include social spaces or exercise facilities that are needed to provide truly comprehensive wrap-around care.

References

1.	Burns, T. et al. Use of intensive case management to reduce time in hospital in people with severe mental illness: Systematic review and meta-regression. Br. Med. J. 335, 336–340 (2007).

2.	Vigod, S. N. et al. Transitional interventions to reduce early psychiatric readmissions in adults: Systematic review. Br. J. Psychiatry 202, 187–194 (2013).

3.	Bokhour, B. G., Hyde, J., Zeliadt, S. & Mohr, D. Whole Health System of Care Evaluation-A Progress Report on Outcomes of the WHS Pilot at 18 Flagship Sites. (2020).

4.	Jonas, W. B. A new model of care to return holism to family medicine. J. Fam. Pract. 69, 493–498 (2020).

5.	Thom, D. H. et al. The impact of health coaching on medication adherence in patients with poorly controlled diabetes, hypertension, and/or hyperlipidemia: A randomized controlled trial. J. Am. Board Fam. Med. 28, 38–45 (2015).

6.	Crocker, R. L. et al. Real-World Evidence from the Integrative Medicine Primary Care Trial (IMPACT): Assessing Patient-Reported Outcomes at Baseline and 12-Month Follow-Up. Evidence-based Complement. Altern. Med. 2019, (2019).

7.	Budzowski, A. R., Parkinson, M. D. & Silfee, V. J. An Evaluation of Lifestyle Health Coaching Programs Using Trained Health Coaches and Evidence-Based Curricula at 6 Months Over 6 Years. Am. J. Heal. Promot. 33, 912–915 (2019).

8.	Penninx, B. W. J. H. & Lange, S. M. M. Metabolic syndrome in psychiatric patients: Overview, mechanisms, and implications. Dialogues Clin. Neurosci. 20, 63–73 (2018).

9.	Nielsen, R. E., Banner, J. & Jensen, S. E. Cardiovascular disease in patients with severe mental illness. Nat. Rev. Cardiol. 18, 136–145 (2021).

10.	Réus, G. Z. et al. The role of inflammation and microglial activation in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders. Neuroscience 300, 141–154 (2015).