---
source_pdf: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CBR20__737bqqMhgTQEn31G23_WG-a_j4gg8GumeEKU/view"
drive_folder: "Research"
type: research

ingested: 2025-12-28
original_filename: "Amir"
---

> **Original:** [View Original PDF](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1CBR20__737bqqMhgTQEn31G23_WG-a_j4gg8GumeEKU/view)

What is MVP?

What are data sources?

What I’m thinking now - Data lake is probably not the best option. Very painful and takes a lot of time. Faster and scalable to implement

Integration - makes it more seamless. Talking to companies that offer middleware layer. Have visibility into different data sources without copying data

Add more quality checks - if the data quality

UI is not the bottleneck in my mind - what’s missing

You have this awesome technically sound - procedure to integrate within current systems. Huge pain point - they don’t know how to do these things.

Something with CRO and pharma

If I had a chance to be embedded in clin ops organization -

Common backbone and how you to integrate into these systems

CROs are going to be mad at you and you will be less dependent on - you have to hold CROs responsible. You can’t just keep asking for change orders all the time - you have your own analysis so you can act quickly

Explicit examples

You’d be surprised

95% rely CRO, 5% on gut feeling

Someone had worked with some site / investigator

What’s the breaking point

$100K for marketing videos that are not true at all

A lot of people are making $ off of this creating unnecessary jobs

Entire thing bundled together

CLear guidelines

Protocols

Historical data

Data

Annual subscriptions / few $100K I can get exact numbers

Internally - 5% of the data is in citeline. Access to interna ldata is important. Cutsomtizable

Company X - can you integrate this list of preferred sites? I give you this dataset on diversity - this is what we can do ?

Integration

Csv files - have to be ablet to connect that into data ingestion?

From their side, there is some manual work. Duplicated records. Lot of automation for checking quality / de-duplication

On their end

If you ask anything more - they won’t do it

Group that works with CTMS

Lookback analysis

Studies that are already running - picked sites and monitoring. Same analysis on the same data. Given sites and investistagors that they picked, and compare against reality

2nd thing - if you pick the list of 5 investigators that I gave you

Integration

CTMS

$1.5M - $2m

Manual work you can’t have any DS do

Specific TA or indication

TNBC with very technical aspects - you have to have seen it

Core is the same but depends on how you use it

Operational

Pharma - we would need a CEO type of person / COO person to take care of operational side

Technical side and subject matter experts

Skeptical of