---
source: Solstice Health, Inc. Master Services Agreement_Signature.pdf
type: MSAs-Signed
extracted: 2026-01-19
---

```markdown
Docusign Envelope ID: 442E5A42-C829-41BD-9757-FA956B7502BE

MSA

CONFIDENTIAL

# MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT

THIS MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is entered into as of September 5, 2025 (the “Effective Date”) by and between Phathom Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware with offices located at 100 Campus Drive, Suite 102, Florham, Park, New Jersey 07932 (“Phathom”) and Solstice Health, Inc. a Delaware corporation with offices located at 234 5th Ave, Floor 3, New York, NY 10001 (“Solstice” or “Solstice”). Each of Phathom and Solstice may be sometimes referred to herein as a "Party", and collectively as, the “Parties”.

# RECITALS

WHEREAS, Phathom is engaged in the business of development and commercialization of ethical pharmaceutical products;

WHEREAS, Solstice is engaged in the business of providing advanced generative AI solutions to life sciences companies to support creation and management of marketing materials and related consulting services and products; and

WHEREAS, Phathom desires to obtain from Solstice, and Solstice desires to provide to Phathom, the Services and access to the Platform (each as defined below) in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

# 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1. Engagement and Commitment. Phathom hereby engages Solstice, on a non-exclusive basis to perform, and Solstice hereby agrees to perform, certain services from time to time, on a project-by-project basis, as more particularly described in this Agreement and in a Statement of Work executed from time to time by the Parties under Section 1.2(the “Services”) and to provide Phathom with access to the Solstice AI platform as described in the applicable Statement of Work (the "Platform").

1.2. Statements of Work. Any Statement of Work (“SOW”) shall be in the format of Exhibit A, and shall: (a) identify the applicable project and describe the activities and duties for which Solstice is responsible; (b) describe terms of the Platform license to the extent applicable; (c) include an estimated budget of Solstice's Fees for the Services and costs for Platform access (as defined in Section 4.1 below) and any Authorized Expenses (as defined in Section 4.1 below) for which Phathom will be responsible as permitted hereunder including any applicable formula for determining such Fees or Authorized Expenses (e.g., hourly rates or otherwise) as defined in Section 4; (d) be signed by both Parties prior to commencing work on any project; and (e) be governed by this Agreement and made a part hereof. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the terms and conditions of an SOW and those of this Agreement, this Agreement's terms and conditions shall govern and control unless otherwise specifically set forth in the SOW. In each instance, Solstice shall perform the Services hereunder only upon Phathom's request and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein.

1.3. Regulatory Matters. Phathom will be responsible for all written and oral contact, if any, with the relevant regulatory or health authority in the U.S. or other countries with jurisdiction over the Output, as defined in Section 5.5, including without limitation the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and any successor entity thereto or its foreign equivalent (“Agency”), with respect to the Output. Solstice shall not initiate or participate in any communications with the Agency concerning any of the Output unless required by law. Solstice will provide Phathom with all reasonably necessary documentation as may be required by an appliable Agency in connection with Phathom's regulatory filings.

# 2. COMPANY'S RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Project Managers. Solstice shall identify one (1) or more personnel (“Project Manager(s)”) reasonably acceptable to Phathom who shall be responsible for supervising and directing the Services and supporting Phathom's use of the Platform. Solstice shall replace any Project Manager with a successor reasonably acceptable to Phathom if Phathom requests such change in writing and provides reasonable cause for such replacement.

2.2. Solstice Personnel. In addition to the Project Manager, Solstice:
    A. shall be responsible for ensuring that a reasonably sufficient number of trained and qualified personnel are assigned to the Services in order to perform the Services required therefor and support Phathom's use of the Platform in accordance with this Agreement;
    B. except as provided in subsection 2.2(C) below, may not subcontract, delegate or otherwise assign the performance of any of the Services without the prior written consent of Phathom, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, provided that the requirements of this subsection (B) and subsection 2.2(C) below do not apply to any Technology Vendors (as defined in an applicable SOW); and
    C. shall be responsible for ensuring that its contracts with approved subcontractors are consistent with the terms of this Agreement and permit Phathom to audit such subcontractor as provided herein. Phathom's consent to the use of any subcontractor shall not be deemed to relieve Solstice of any of its obligations hereunder, and Solstice shall at all times remain primarily liable for performance of all such obligations.

2.3. Records. As part of the Services, Solstice shall maintain complete and accurate Records for and shall retain and store same in a secure area reasonably protected from fire, other natural hazards, theft or destruction for a period of five (5) years after completion of the Services or as otherwise required by applicable laws and regulations. In no event shall Solstice delete or destroy any Records without the prior written consent of Phathom. For purposes of this Agreement, “Records” means any and all documents, notes, data, correspondence, contracts, reports, the records of review and analyses performed by Solstice and any other procedures, tasks and activities performed by Solstice or third party in connection with the Services described herein.

2.4. Phathom Audits.
    A. Phathom, at any time upon reasonable notice to Solstice and during normal business hours,at Phathom's expense, through an independent third-party auditor that is reasonably acceptable to Solstice and subject to confidentiality obligations consistent with those herein, shall have the right to conduct an audit of the Records and records relating to the Solstice's charges hereunder solely for the purposes of and solely to the extent necessary to: (i) exercising Phathom's rights under Section 4.5, and (ii) verifying Solstice's compliance with this Agreement (including compliance with all applicable laws and regulations).
    B. Solstice shall use commercially reasonable efforts to resolve any unsatisfactory audit findings, but such cooperation shall not prevent Phathom from exercising its rights hereunder if an audit determines that Solstice is in breach of its obligations hereunder.

# 3. ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Provision of Information. Phathom shall deliver to Solstice the applicable information concerning the Services, including without limitation, an estimated schedule for completion of Services and any other information which Phathom reasonably believes would be helpful to Solstice in the performance of Services. Solstice shall not be responsible for any delay or failure to provide any Services that is due to Phathom's failure or delay in providing necessary materials, information, or cooperation.

3.2. Additional Responsibilities. Each SOW shall describe any additional responsibilities of the Parties with respect to the applicable project or scope of work.

# 4. COMPENSATION AND PAYMENTS

4.1. Compensation. A detailed budget of all expenses anticipated for the Services including Solstice's fees for the Services and Platform access (“Fees”) and any other pass-through expenses shall be included in the applicable SOW (the “Budget”). As full and complete payment to Solstice for all Services provided hereunder, Phathom shall compensate Solstice in accordance with the Budget and payment schedule for Services properly rendered and for access provided to the Platform in accordance with the applicable SOW. In addition, Phathom shall reimburse Solstice for reasonable pass-through and out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred by Solstice in accordance with the Budget (at cost and without markup) in connection with the Services for which Phathom has expressly agreed to be responsible in any SOW (“Authorized Expenses”).

4.2. Invoicing and Payments. Solstice shall provide Phathom with a properly completed and signed W-9 form promptly upon execution of this Agreement. Solstice shall invoice Phathom for expenses incurred and Services properly performed in accordance with the payment schedule outlined the relevant SOW. All invoices must be sent to Solstice by email in a PDF version to phathom.ap@phathompharma.com. Phathom shall pay each undisputed invoice within thirty days (30) days of receipt. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Phathom may withhold any payments until such time it receives a properly completed and signed W-9 form.

4.3. Taxes. Phathom shall only be responsible for paying for value-added taxes, sales taxes and/or customs/duties imposed by the relevant taxing authority on payments made to the Solstice pursuant to this Agreement. All other taxes, such as income taxes, foreign withholding taxes, etc., imposed on payments made to the Solstice pursuant to this Agreement shall be the sole responsibility of the Solstice.

4.4. Withholding, Offset and Disputed Invoices. If Phathom has a good faith dispute regarding the accuracy of any invoice, Phathom may withhold payment of the disputed portion of any invoice until such dispute is resolved. If any portion of an invoice is disputed, then Phathom shall pay the undisputed amounts, and the Parties shall use good faith efforts to reconcile the disputed amount as soon as practicable.

4.5. Audit Right. Solstice shall keep full and accurate records of the information supporting its charges for Services performed and pass-through expenses provided hereunder. For two (2) years following the expiration or termination of this Agreement, Phathom shall have the right to audit such records, at Phathom's expense, through an independent third-party auditor that is reasonably acceptable to Solstice and subject to confidentiality obligations consistent with those herein, during normal business hours for the sole purpose of verifying the accuracy of the invoices submitted by Solstice and the amounts paid or payable by Phathom hereunder.

# 5. CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

5.1. Confidentiality.

A. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, the terms defined in this Section shall have the specified meanings. “Phathom Confidential Information” means all (i) information of Phathom or any of its Affiliates, as defined below, which Solstice has received or will receive from or on behalf of Phathom, or to which Solstice has access, in each case, during the term hereof, including Inputs and Phathom Data, as defined in Section 5.5, and any other reports, and any other materials provided by or on behalf of Phathom to Solstice for purposes of performing the Services, and (ii) any and all Outputs, as defined in Section 5.5. “Solstice Confidential Information” means proprietary information provided by Solstice and identified in writing as confidential at the time of disclosure to Phathom or which, in each case, would be reasonably understood to be confidential given the nature of the information or the circumstances surrounding its disclosure. For purposes of this Agreement, “Affiliate” of a Party shall mean any corporation, firm, partnership or other entity which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Party. For purposes of this definition, “control” shall mean the ownership of at least fifty percent (50%) of the voting share capital of such entity or any other comparable equity or ownership interests.
B. Confidentiality and No Use Obligations. Each of Solstice and Phathom agrees that it shall keep confidential the Confidential Information of the other Party and shall not disclose the Confidential Information of the other Party to any third party, other than as expressly set forth in this Agreement, and shall not use the Confidential Information of the other Party for any purpose other than to perform its obligations or exercise its rights under this Agreement or as otherwise set forth in this Agreement.

5.2. Exceptions. The foregoing confidentiality obligations shall not apply to Confidential Information of the disclosing party (the “Disclosing Party”) to the extent a receiving party (the "Receiving Party") can establish by competent documentary proof that such Confidential Information:
    (i) was already properly known to the Receiving Party at the time of disclosure or being generated under this Agreement;
    (ii) was generally available to the public or otherwise part of the public domain at the time of disclosure to the Receiving Party or being generated under this Agreement, other than as a result of a breach of this Agreement or of any other confidentiality obligation between the Parties;
    (iii) became generally available to the public or otherwise part of the public domain after its disclosure or development or being generated under this Agreement, as the case may be, and other than through an act or omission of the Receiving Party or any of its employees, agents, advisors or other personnel;
    (iv) was properly disclosed to the Receiving Party, other than under an obligation of confidentiality, by a third Party who had no obligation to keep such information confidential to others;
    (v) was developed independently outside of this Agreement by employees of Receiving Party who had no access to or knowledge of the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information.

5.3. Permitted Disclosures. The Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information of Disclosing Party to the extent that such disclosure by the Receiving Party is:
    A. legally compelled by a valid order of a court of competent jurisdiction or governmental authority of competent jurisdiction or otherwise legally required to be disclosed in the reasonable opinion of the Receiving Party's legal counsel; provided, that, the Receiving Party will provide the Disclosing Party with prompt notice (to the extent legally permitted) so that the Disclosing Party may, at Disclosing Party's cost, seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy and/or waive compliance with the provisions of this Agreement. In the event that such a protective order or other remedy is not obtained, or that the Disclosing Party waives compliance in writing with the provisions of this Agreement, the Receiving Party or its representatives will furnish only that portion of the Confidential Information that is legally required to be disclosed (by judicial or similar process that would subject the Receiving Party or its representatives to contempt or similar penalty to failure to disclose) and, at Disclosing Party's request and expense, will exercise the Receiving Party's or its representatives' reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be afforded to the Confidential Information;
    B. made by the Receiving Party to any Agency as required with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for a product; provided, however, that reasonable measures shall be taken by the Receiving Party to seek confidential treatment of such information;
    C. [intentionally omitted];
    D. made by the Receiving Party to its and/or its Affiliate's directors, officers, employees, attorneys, auditors, advisors, consultants, contractors, or other such individuals or entities in connection with the performance of its obligations or exercise of its rights as contemplated by this Agreement; provided, that, such third party shall be subject to obligations of confidentiality and non-use with respect to such Confidential Information that consistent with the terms and conditions set forth herein;
    E. made by the Receiving Party or its representatives to actual or prospective, acquirers, merger candidates, lenders or investors (and to their respective affiliates, representatives and financing sources) to the extent necessary for (i) performance of the Receiving Party's obligations or exercise of its rights as contemplated by the Agreement or (ii) a bona fide due diligence inquiry for acquisition, merger, financing, or other similar transaction; provided, that, each such third party is subject to confidentiality and non-use obligations that are substantially similar to the Receiving Party's obligations hereunder or consistent with industry standards in such circumstances; and
    F. Without limiting the foregoing, each Receiving Party shall be liable for any breach of this Agreement by any third party to whom Receiving Party discloses the Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party under Section 5.3(D) and 5.3(E) above (“Representatives”). Each Receiving Party shall, at its own expense, take all reasonable actions necessary to restrain its Representatives from making any unauthorized use or disclosure of the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information.

5.4. Publications. Solstice shall not publish any articles or papers nor make any presentations or otherwise make any public disclosures, nor assist any other person in publishing any articles or papers or in making any presentations or otherwise make any public disclosures, relating or referring to any of the Services or Phathom's use of the Platform or any results, data, information, materials or insights generated hereunder, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Phathom, which consent may be granted or withheld in Phathom's sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Phathom agrees that (a) Solstice may identify Phathom as a client in its internal communications and (b) if Solstice wishes to request a reference from Phathom, that highlights the relationship with Phathom, Phathom agrees to reasonably provide a reference to Solstice, as applicable.

5.5. Proprietary Rights.
    A. Definitions: For purposes of the Agreement, the terms defined in this Section shall have the specified meanings. “Inputs” shall mean marketing assets, prompts, parameters, and other information provided, uploaded or submitted to the Platform by or on behalf of Phathom. “Phathom Data” shall mean all Inputs and all other data, information and materials provided, uploaded, or submitted by or on behalf of Phathom to the Platform. “Outputs” shall mean all reports, feedback, modified versions of Phathom assets, new or additional assets or any other information or materials that are generated by the Platform using Phathom Data or Inputs.
    B. License Grants. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, Solstice grants to Phathom a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, and non-transferable right during the term of this SOW to use the Platform solely in connection with Phathom's internal business operations and to permit authorized users, to defined in the applicable SOW, to use the Platform solely for Phathom's internal business purposes. For the sake of clarity, Phathom's internal business purposes includes, but is not limited to, improvement or generation of materials that will be used with external audiences. Phathom hereby grants to Solstice a non-exclusive, worldwide, nontransferable right to use, copy, store, disclose, transmit, transfer, publicly display, modify, and create derivative works from Phathom Data only (a) as necessary to provide the Services to Phathom, and (b) for Solstice's performance data analytics purposes as specifically set forth in this Agreement and the applicable SOW, including without limitation deriving, creating, compiling, and generating Aggregated Data and Usage Data, as defined in the SOW.
    C. Ownership Rights. As between the parties, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, (a) Phathom shall retain all right, title and interest in and to the Inputs, Phathom Data and Outputs, including all intellectual property rights therein, and (b) Solstice retains all right, title, and interest in and to the Platform and all other technology used by Solstice to provide the Services (other than Phathom Data, Inputs, or Outputs) (collectively, such technology together with the Platform, the “Solstice Technology”), and all software, algorithms, models, code, information, content, products, works and other intellectual property and technology embodied in the Solstice Technology, and any improvements, enhancements, developments and creations related to the Solstice Technology (the “Platform Intellectual Property"), provided that in no event shall the Inputs, Phathom Data or Outputs be considered part of Platform Intellectual Property.
    D. No Rights to Third Party Input or Output. Phathom acknowledges that Outputs are generated automatically by the Platform using machine learning technology and may be similar to or the same as output provided to other customers, and no rights to any output generated, provided, or returned to other customers are granted to Phathom under this Agreement.
    E. [intentionally omitted]
    F. [Intentionally omitted]

5.6. Equitable Relief. Each Party hereby acknowledges and agrees that any actual or threatened breach of the confidentiality obligations hereof relating to the Confidential Information of the other Party may cause irreparable harm to such other Party for which remedies at law would not be adequate. Therefore, in the event of any such breach such other Party shall be entitled to seek injunctive relief, including injunction and specific performance in addition to any and all other remedies available at law or in equity.

# 6. REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS

6.1. LIMITATIONS. EXCEPT FOR THE WARRANTIES EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS”, AND SOLSTICE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ALL IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHER WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT, AND ALL WARRANTIES ARISING FROM COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR USAGE IN TRADE. PHATHOM ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT OUTPUTS MAY CONTAIN INACCURATE OR INCOMPLETE INFORMATION AND SOLSTICE MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES AND PROVIDES NO INDEMNITIES WITH RESPECT THERETO; PHATHOM AND ITS END USERS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL DECISIONS MADE, ADVICE GIVEN, ACTIONS TAKEN, AND FAILURES TO TAKE ACTION BASED ON THEIR USE OF THE SERVICES. PHATHOM ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT SOLSTICE IS NOT PROVIDING LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR ANY OTHER ADVICE, AND THAT PHATHOM IS ADVISED TO CONSULT WITH ITS OWN LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISORS AND TAX EXPERTS.

6.2. Suitability for Use. Phathom is responsible for ensuring that the Outputs, and any other information or materials made available via the Services are suitable for Phathom's use. Phathom understands and agrees that Solstice is not a law firm or an attorney, may not perform services performed by an attorney, and is not the substitute for the advice or services of an attorney. Any Outputs or other information or materials generated by the Services, including without limitation if generated by Solstice personnel using the Platform, have not received legal input regarding their suitability and are not guaranteed to be correct, complete or up-to-date. No attorney-client relationship or privilege is created with Solstice.

6.3. Third Party LLM Services. Phathom acknowledges and agrees that the Services and Platform may operate on, with or using application programming interfaces (APIs) and/or other services operated or provided by third parties (such as Third-Party LLM Providers) (collectively, “Third-Party Services”), including without limitation through integrations or connectors to such Third-Party Services that are provided by Solstice. Solstice is not responsible for the operation of any Third-Party Services nor the availability or operation of the Services to the extent such availability and operation is dependent upon Third-Party Services, provided, that if the Service is unavailable to Phathom for 24 hours or more commencing upon Phathom's notice to Solstice of such unavailability, due to issues in the operation of Third-Party Services or other issues with respect to any third-party provider provided or used by Solstice, and Phathom notifies Solstice of such unavailability using the support channels provided by Solstice for reporting outages, and provided that Phathom is in compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Solstice will credit Phathom's next invoice with an amount equal to the proportionate amount of days of the month that the Service was unavailable. Solstice does not make any representations or warranties with respect to Third-Party Services or any third-party providers.

6.4. Use of Inputs and Outputs. Phathom agrees that Phathom's use of the Inputs and Outputs will not breach or violate any applicable Third-Party LLM Provider terms and policies, including without limitation OpenAI's Usage Policies, available at https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies/, or Anthropic's Usage Policy, available at https://www.anthropic.com/legal/aup.

6.5. Standard of Performance. Solstice warrants that all Services will be performed in a professional and workmanlike manner in material conformance with industry standards, the requirements set forth in this Agreement and any applicable SOW, and applicable laws and regulations. If Solstice fails to perform the Services in accordance with the applicable standards or deliverables do not materially conform to the applicable specifications therefor, Phathom shall notify Solstice in writing within thirty (30) days. Solstice shall, at Phathom's election, promptly (a) re-perform the Services at no additional cost to Phathom or (b) refund to Phathom all Fees paid for such nonconforming Services. All deliverables of the Services shall conform in all material respects to this Agreement and the applicable SOW. The remedies set forth in this Section, along with Phathom's termination rights under Section 9, will be Phathom's sole remedy for defective Services.

6.6. [intentionally omitted].

6.7. No Debarment or Sanctions. Solstice hereby represents, warrants and covenants that:
    A. Solstice, to its knowledge, is not, has never been and will not employ or use in any capacity to perform Services, a person or entity sanctioned by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, barred from participating in government health care programs, or convicted of a criminal offense with respect to health care reimbursement nor is Solstice, to its knowledge, employed by, in partnership with, a stockholder in, or otherwise affiliated with, a person or entity who has been so sanctioned, barred or convicted;
    B. Solstice is not, has never been and will not employ, or use in any capacity to perform Services, a person or entity debarred under Section 306(a) or (b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, nor is Solstice employed by, in partnership with, a stockholder in, or otherwise affiliated with, a person or entity who has been so debarred; and
    C. Solstice shall promptly notify Phathom in writing in the event that any of the foregoing representations and warranties should become untrue or if Solstice becomes aware of any fact or circumstance which is reasonably expected to make any such representation or warranty to become untrue.

6.8. No Conflicting Obligations. Solstice hereby represents, warrants and covenants to Phathom that Solstice is not subject to any conflicting obligation or legal impediment that conflicts with its performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and that no such obligations will be incurred or permitted in the future without the prior written approval of Phathom.

6.9. [Intentionally omitted].

6.10. Additional Representations and Warranties. Each Party represents and warrants that: (a) it is duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation; (b) it has full power and authority to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement; (c) it is not insolvent and has not filed, and does not anticipate filing, any petition for bankruptcy or similar proceedings, nor has any such petition been filed against it; and (d) with respect to Solstice, it has the financial and operational capacity to fully perform the Services in accordance with this Agreement and each applicable Statement of Work.

# 7. Limitation of Liability. WITH THE EXCEPTION OF ITS INDEMNITY OBLIGATIONS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, (A) NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OR EXPENSES, INCLUDING DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF OPPORTUNITY OR USE OF ANY KIND, SUFFERED BY THE OTHER PARTY UNDER ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY, INCLUDING BREACH OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY AND OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT SUCH PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES AND (B) IN ANY EVENT, THE TOTAL LIABILITY OF EITHER PARTY TO THE OTHER PARTY OR ANY THIRD-PARTY ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT AND OTHER RELATED AGREEMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH ANY CLAIM OR TYPE OF DAMAGE (WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR TORT) WILL NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS MADE OR PAYABLE BY PHATHOM TO SOLSTICE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.

# 8. INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE

8.1. Indemnification by Solstice. Solstice shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Phathom and its Affiliates and their respective employees, directors/managers, agents, subcontractors and consultants ("Phathom Indemnitees”), from and against any and all liabilities, damages and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs) in each case, to the extent paid out to unaffiliated third parties (collectively, “Loss”) incurred by such Phathom Indemnitees in connection with any third party claim, action, suit, proceeding or arbitration, including any governmental authority action or investigation (“Claim”) arising out, resulting from or alleging: (i) any grossly negligent act or omission or willful misconduct by Solstice or its employees, agents or subcontractors in the performance of the Services, (ii) any misrepresentation or breach of Solstice's representations or warranties set forth in this Agreement by Solstice, or (iii) any claim that the Platform infringes any patent, copyright or trademark of a third party or misappropriates any intellectual property of a third party, other than a claim that arises from and as a result of use of materials provided to Solstice by Phathom in connection with Services, including without limitation Phathom Data except in each case for those Losses (1) as to which Phathom has an obligation to indemnify Solstice pursuant to Section 8.2, as to which Losses each party will indemnify the other to the extent of their respective liability and (2) to the extent arising from (i) a Phathom Indemnitee's breach of this Agreement; (ii) use of the Services in a manner not contemplated by Solstice or in combination with any materials or technology not provided by Solstice; or (iii) any modifications to the Services not made by Solstice. The forgoing shall be Solstice's sole liability, and Phathom's sole remedy, for any intellectual property infringement claim.

8.2. Indemnification by Phathom. Phathom shall indemnify, defend and hold Solstice and its Affiliates and their respective employees, directors/managers, agents, subcontractors, and consultants (“Solstice Indemnitees”) harmless from any Loss incurred by such Solstice Indemnitees in connection with any Claim arising out of or resulting from: (i) any grossly negligent act or omission or willful misconduct by Phathom or its employees, agents or subcontractor, (ii) any misrepresentation or breach of Phathom's representations or warranties set forth in this Agreement by Phathom, or (iii) any claim that any materials provided to Solstice by Phathom in connection with Services infringe any patent, copyright, or trademark of a third party or misappropriates any intellectual property or other right of a third party, except in each case for those Losses as to which Solstice has an obligation to indemnify Phathom pursuant to Section 8.1, as to which Losses each party will indemnify the other to the extent of their respective liability.

8.3. Indemnification Procedure. Each Party's indemnification obligations hereunder are conditioned upon all of the following:
    A. If any action is brought against a Party entitled to indemnification under this Article (each, an “Indemnified Party”), such Indemnified Party or Parties shall promptly notify the Party obligated to provide indemnification (an “Indemnifying Party”) in writing of the institution of such action and the basis thereof; provided that the failure to so notify an Indemnifying Party shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder except to the extent that (and only to the extent that) the Indemnifying Party has been materially prejudiced thereby.
    B. The Indemnifying Party shall have sole and exclusive control of the defense and settlement of the applicable claim. Promptly upon receipt of notice pursuant to subparagraph (A) above, the Indemnifying Party shall promptly assume the defense of such action, including, without limitation, payment of expenses. An Indemnified Party or Parties shall have the right to employ its or their own counsel in any such case, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party or Parties. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, under no circumstances shall the Indemnifying Party be obligated to assume responsibility for the expenses for more than one (1) counsel for all the Indemnified Parties.
    C. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of any such claim or action effected without its written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. The Indemnifying Party shall have the right to settle or compromise any action, or permit a default or consent to the entry of judgment in, or otherwise seek to terminate, any pending or threatened action, in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder (whether or not any Indemnified Party is a Party thereto), provided, that, such settlement, compromise, consent, or termination includes an unconditional release of each Indemnified Party from all liability in respect of such action. In the event such an unconditional release is not obtainable for each Indemnified Party, then the Indemnifying Party must obtain the prior written consent of any Indemnified Party not so released before the Indemnifying Party may enter into such settlement, compromise, consent or termination, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, delayed, or conditioned.

8.4. Insurance. During the term of this Agreement, Solstice will carry insurance policies in such amounts and provide such coverages as is reasonable and customary for commercial entities providing services like those being rendered by Solstice under this Agreement. In no event, however, shall Solstice carry insurance in amounts less than the following for each type specified or as otherwise might be required by applicable law or regulation:
    A. commercial general liability insurance, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage, with limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate;
    B. professional liability insurance with coverage of not less than total coverage of $3,000,000;
    C. intentionally omitted;
    D. worker's compensation with limits in accordance with statutory requirements, including employer's liability coverage of not less than $1,000,000;
    E. excess liability insurance of no less than $5,000,000; and
    F. cyber liability insurance with coverage of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the annual aggregate.

Solstice's provision of insurance is not intended to be a limitation of Solstice's liability under this Agreement or any specific provision within the agreement of indemnity to Phathom. Upon request, Solstice will provide written evidence of such insurance to Phathom in the form of a certificate of insurance showing the coverages listed above and will provide Phathom thirty (30) days prior written notice of any cancellation in any of the above coverages.

# 9. TERM, TERMINATION AND POSTPONEMENT

9.1. Term. This Agreement shall take effect on the Effective Date and shall remain in full force and effect for a period of three (3) years (the “Initial Term”) unless terminated as permitted herein or either Party notifies the other Party of its intent not to renew in writing at least 30 days before the end of the Initial Term. After the Initial Term, this Agreement shall automatically renew for additional subsequent one (1) year terms (each, a “Renewal Term”) unless and until either Party notifies the other Party of its intent not to renew in writing at least 30 days before the end of the then-current Renewal Term. The Initial Term and all subsequent Renewal Terms will be the "Term".

9.2. Termination of Agreement. This Agreement may be terminated:
    A. by either Party for convenience and without cause upon fifteen (15) days prior written notice to the other Party if there are no outstanding SOWs in effect, or
    B. by Phathom for convenience, with or without cause, upon thirty (30) days' prior notice to Solstice that Phathom is terminating this Agreement in its entirety which shall terminate all outstanding SOWs, subject to Phathom's payment in full of all early termination fees set forth in each of the terminated SOWs (the “Early Termination Fee”), or
    C. immediately by Phathom or Solstice in writing upon the material breach of this Agreement by the other Party and the failure of such other Party to cure such breach within thirty (30) days of receipt of the non-breaching Party's written notice of such breach, provided, that, unless otherwise provided in such notice, termination of the Agreement shall not result in termination of any uncompleted SOWs, which shall continue under all terms of this Agreement until completion or termination under Section 9.3; or
    D. by Phathom in the event that Solstice files for bankruptcy, has a receiver appointed over its assets, makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, and in each case, the applicable proceeding is not dismissed within 120 days.

9.3. Termination of Statements of Work.
    A. Either Party may terminate any SOW in writing upon the material breach of this Agreement or such SOW by the other Party and the failure of such other Party to cure such breach within thirty (30) days of receipt of the non-breaching Party's written notice of such breach.
    B. Phathom may terminate without cause any one or more or all of the SOWs at any time by giving thirty (30) days' prior written notice to Solstice, subject to Phathom's payment in full of any Early Termination Fee. Either Party's termination of any SOW will not result in the termination of this Agreement or any other SOW unless so stated in the terminating Party's written notice of termination.
    C. If either Party terminates a SOW without terminating this Agreement:
        
