---
source: MSA + SOW with Solstice Health, Inc_ (691df775e9) (1) (version 1).pdf
type: MSAs-Signed
extracted: 2026-01-19
---

```markdown
# Nuvation Bio
MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT
(Commercial Services)

This MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is entered into as of the last
signature date (the "Effective Date") and is made by and between Nuvation Bio Inc. a Delaware
corporation, having a place of business located at 1500 Broadway, Suite 1401, New York, NY 10036
(“Nuvation”), and Solstice Health, Inc., having a place of business at 234 5th Avenue, Floor 5, New
York, New York, 10001 (“Company”). Company and Nuvation may each be referred to individually
herein as a "Party" and collectively as the “Parties”. The Parties hereby agree as follows:

WHEREAS, Nuvation is a pharmaceutical company engaged in the development and
commercialization of pharmaceutical products;

WHEREAS, Company possesses know-how and expertise relating to the provision of the Services
(as defined below); and

WHEREAS, Nuvation desires to engage Company to provide the Services to Nuvation, and
Company desires to be so engaged.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties hereby agree as follows:

## 1. SERVICES.

(a) Services. Company will provide Nuvation with the services and deliverables that
will be agreed to in separate statements of work (such services collectively, the “Services", and each such
statement of work, a “SOW”). On each occasion when Nuvation desires to obtain Services from Company,
either Nuvation or Company shall prepare a SOW which shall reference this Agreement and include: (i) a
detailed description of the Services to be provided by Company; and (ii) the fees and payment schedule for
the Services. Company shall deliver to Nuvation any items noted in each SOW, together with any other
results, data, work product and/or deliverables generated by Company pursuant to the Services, in each
case, solely if extent expressly identified as a “Nuvation-Owned Deliverable” in the applicable SOW
(collectively, the “Deliverables"). Once, and only if, an SOW has been signed by both Parties, it shall
become effective and governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement. In the event of any conflict
between the terms of this Agreement and any SOW, or any other terms within any document generated
under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement will govern and control.

(b) Changes / Modifications to SOWs. Company shall not accumulate charges, and
Nuvation shall not be liable for payments, above the amounts specifically authorized by each SOW. Any
alteration in the scope of Services or the fees pertaining to each SOW shall require a written amendment to
the applicable SOW signed by both Parties.

(c) Correction of Material Errors. In the event that Nuvation provides Company with
a written detailed notification of a material error by Company in any Services or Deliverables, at Nuvation's
election, Company shall either: (i) correct the material error free of charge to Nuvation as soon as reasonably
possible; (ii) re-perform the Services as soon as reasonably possible and at Company's sole cost and
expense; or (iii) terminate the applicable SOW and refund to Nuvation the amount paid to Company for
such Services or Deliverable, prorated for any use of such Services or Deliverables prior to the termination
of the applicable SOW.

(d) Personnel. Company will ensure: (i) all personnel who perform any Services under
this Agreement are appropriately trained and qualified to perform the Services; (ii) all personnel shall
perform the Services in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations; and (iii) prior to any
Company personnel performing Services under this Agreement, each such person shall be legally bound in
writing to obligations of confidentiality at least as strict as those under Section 5, and, to the extent
applicable, obligations to assign intellectual property rights to enable Company to comply with its
obligations under Section 6.

(e) Subcontracting. Except as set forth in the applicable SOW, Company shall not
subcontract any of the Services unless otherwise approved in writing (email is sufficient) by Nuvation prior
to such subcontract, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Company may subcontract Services to an Affiliate (as defined below). In the event Nuvation approves of
any such subcontracting, or Company subcontracts to an Affiliate, Company shall remain responsible for
the performance of such permitted subcontractor and for their compliance with the terms and conditions of
this Agreement and applicable SOWs. Company shall be responsible for any and all payments to such
permitted subcontractors. “Affiliate(s)” shall mean, with respect to each Party: (i) all business units and
divisions of such Party, or the parent(s) of such Party; and (ii) any entity controlled by, controlling, or under
common control with such Party. Such entity shall be deemed to be an “Affiliate” only so long as such
control exists.

(f) Performance. Company will perform the Services in a professional, diligent,
workmanlike, and timely manner, and in strict accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
the applicable SOW, and all Applicable Laws. “Applicable Laws” shall mean all international, federal, state
and local laws and binding ordinances, regulations and codes applicable to Company and the Services,
which may include without limitation: (i) the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§301 et
seq.) and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto; (ii) the Federal Healthcare Programs Anti-kickback
Statute (42 U.S.C. §1320a-7b(b)); (iii) Title XIII of Division A and Title IV of Division B of the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009; (iv) anti-corruption laws, rules, regulations and standards in the
country or countries in which any Services are performed, including, as applicable, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010; and (iv) applicable state privacy laws; and (v) any Company
policies and procedures. If Company has any relationship, ownership, or financial interest in a third party
that might unduly influence any action Company may take as part of Services, Company shall disclose such
relationship, ownership, or financial interest to Nuvation in writing prior to the commencement of any
impacted Services.

(g) Deliverables and Recordkeeping. Company shall create and maintain written
records of the Deliverables in a timely and accurate manner. As between the parties, the Deliverables shall
be exclusively owned by Nuvation. Company shall maintain the Deliverables in compliance with the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, the applicable SOW and all Applicable Laws. Promptly upon completion
or termination of Services under a SOW, or promptly upon request by Nuvation, Company shall transfer
the Deliverables to Nuvation. Company shall store a copy of the Deliverables for two (2) years following
termination of this Agreement, or longer as required by Applicable Law.

(h) PHI. Prior to Nuvation providing, disclosing or otherwise making available any
Protected Health Information (as defined in Exhibit A) to Company, (i) Nuvation shall first notify Company
in writing and (ii) the Parties shall in good faith execute a business associate agreement to address applicable
obligations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as modified by the
Health Information Technology For Economic and Clinical Health Act.

## 2. PAYMENT AND EXPENSES.

(a) Payment. Payment for Services shall be rendered following completion of the
Services on a monthly basis unless otherwise set forth in the applicable SOW. However, in no event shall
the total payment thereunder exceed the total payment amount set forth in the applicable SOW without the
prior written consent of Nuvation.

(b) Reimbursable Expenses. Nuvation will only reimburse Company for reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred by Company in rendering Services under this Agreement, if
approved in advance in the applicable SOW or in writing by Nuvation.

(c) Travel Expenses. If applicable in connection with the Services under the
applicable SOW, Nuvation shall reimburse reasonable travel costs actually incurred by Company, without
commission or mark-up, if approved in advance in such SOW or in writing by Nuvation, and only to the
extent that such costs are in accordance with Nuvation's then-current vendor travel guidelines. Nuvation
shall make its then-current vendor travel guidelines available upon request by Company.

(d) Invoices. Company shall submit written invoices to Nuvation by email to
AP@nuvationbio.com, together with reasonable supporting documentation of any expenses, for payments
and expense reimbursement hereunder. Such invoices shall reflect a breakdown of the Services performed,
the total amount due for each such Service and the total amount due for all Services. Nuvation shall pay
Company any undisputed amounts specified in such invoices within 30 days of its receipt of such invoices.
Any purchase order issued by Nuvation in connection with this Agreement will be for payment purposes
only, will not be deemed a contract document, and its terms and conditions shall not apply to Nuvation or
Company.

(e) Taxes. Nuvation shall pay any applicable sales taxes on payments it makes to
Company pursuant to this Agreement. All other taxes, including, but not limited to income tax, gross
receipts tax, and foreign withholding tax applicable to payments Nuvation makes to Company pursuant to
this Agreement shall be the sole responsibility of Company.

(f) Payments are Compensation for Services. Both Parties acknowledge that
Nuvation's payments to Company under this Agreement (i) are compensation for bona fide Services, (ii)
consistent with fair market value in arm's length transactions; (iii) are not determined in a manner that takes
into account the volume or value of business generated between the parties for which payment may be
made, in whole or in part, by a government or commercial health care payor; and (iv) do not involve the
counselling or promotion of a business arrangement or other activity that violates Applicable Laws.

## 3. TERM AND TERMINATION.

(a) Term. The term of this Agreement shall commence as of the Effective Date and
shall continue in force until terminated by either Party in accordance with this Section 3 (the "Term").

(b) Termination By Nuvation. Nuvation may terminate this Agreement, in whole or
in part (including any SOW), with or without cause upon 30 days' prior written notice to Company.

(c) Termination By Company. Company may terminate this Agreement without cause
upon 90 days' prior written notice to Nuvation. Company may terminate this Agreement if Nuvation is in
material default of its obligations under this Agreement; provided however, that Company shall provide
Nuvation with at least 30 days' prior written notice of such material breach and the opportunity to cure (or
where such breach is not reasonably amenable to cure within a 30-day period, to commence and diligently
pursue the cure of) the breach during such period.

(d) Effect of Termination. Upon notice of any termination of this Agreement or any
SOW, Company shall promptly wind-down and cease performance of the applicable Services, and
Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the cost attributable to such wind-down
efforts; provided, however, if Nuvation exercises its right to terminate this Agreement or any SOW at will,
Company shall promptly complete any Services as specifically directed by Nuvation in its notice of
termination. Upon termination, Company shall deliver promptly to Nuvation all Deliverables, documents
and materials containing Nuvation's Confidential Information (as defined in Section 5(a) below) and all
complete and incomplete work product, including all copies or excerpts thereof.

## 4. OBLIGATIONS AND REPRESENTATIONS.

(a) Standard of Care; Compliance with Laws. Company represents that it shall
perform the Services in accordance with the standard of care and in compliance with all Applicable Laws
as set forth in Section 1(f).

(b) No Use of Trade Name. Company shall not use Nuvation's or any of its Affiliates'
names, trade names, service marks, trademarks or logos without the prior written consent of Nuvation.

(c) Authority. Each Party represents that: (i) it has the right, power and authority to
enter into and perform this Agreement; (ii) it has obtained all necessary authorizations or waivers to enter
into this Agreement and perform the Services hereunder; and (iii) its execution, delivery and performance
of this Agreement does not and will not conflict with or violate any agreement (whether express, implied
or by operation of law) with any other party or any other legal obligation. Except as otherwise agreed upon
in the applicable SOW, no other payments as a result of the Services provided hereunder (e.g., overhead
charges or facility fees) are due to Company or any third party.

(d) Non-Infringement. Company represents that any and all software, documents or
Services furnished or used under this Agreement including, without limitation, any Deliverables will not,
to the Company's knowledge, infringe upon or violate a patent, trademark or copyright held, or
misappropriate a trade secret claimed, by a third party. If Nuvation becomes subject to a infringement claim
brought by a third party for the Services, whether directly or indirectly, then Nuvation shall notify Company
of such claim and Company shall indemnify Nuvation in accordance with Section 7 below. If any part of
the Services or Deliverables is, Company believes will be, held in any such suit to constitute infringement
and its use is enjoined, Company shall, at its sole option and expense, at any time after the claim of
infringement arises, promptly either: (i) secure for Nuvation the right to continue the use of such part of the
Services or Deliverables in accordance with this Agreement by procuring for Nuvation a license or such
other permission as will enable Company to secure suspension of any injunction; (ii) replace that part of
the Services or Deliverables with an adequate non-infringing part to modify it so that it becomes non-
infringing, but only if the replacement or modification does not reduce the Service's overall functionality;
or (iii) terminate the affected SOW and refund to Nuvation all pre-paid, unused fees and expenses paid
and/or incurred by Nuvation with respect to the terminated portion of the SOW term for the infringing
Services or Deliverables, in each case, prorated to reflect the portion not provided as of the termination
effective date.

(e) No Debarment. Company represents that neither it nor, to its knowledge, of any
of its employees providing Services hereunder has been debarred under the provisions of the Generic Drug
Enforcement Act of 1992, 21 U.S.C. Sec. 335a(a) and (b). If Company or any of its employees providing
Services becomes debarred or receives notice of or threat of debarment during the Term, Company shall
promptly notify Nuvation in writing and cease all work hereunder. Debarment may result in immediate
termination of this Agreement.

(f) Exclusion. Company represents that neither it nor, to its knowledge, any of its
employees providing Services hereunder has been excluded from any federal health care program including,
but not limited to, Medicare, Medicaid and the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed
Services. If Company or any of its employees providing Services hereunder is excluded during the Term,
Company shall immediately notify Nuvation in writing and cease all work hereunder, and Nuvation may
terminate this Agreement in its entirety or any SOW immediately upon written notice to Company.

(g) Transparency Disclosures. This Section 4(g) shall only apply if an applicable SOW
expressly states that adverse event reporting is included in the Services. Company is advised that Nuvation
shall comply with Applicable Laws and/or pharmaceutical industry association codes that require Nuvation
to document and disclose information, including financial data, to competent authorities or pharmaceutical
industry associations regarding transfers of value made to Healthcare Providers from or on behalf of
Nuvation. For the purposes of this provision, “Healthcare Provider” is defined as any individual who is
licensed to prescribe prescription medication or who can otherwise treat or assist in the treatment of patients,
including but not limited to, physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurses, pharmacists,
pharmacy directors, counselors, social workers, medical directors for health plans, health plan
administrators, office staff, medical residents, medical students, interns, fellows, as well as institutions
affiliated with such individuals, including but not limited to hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and health plans.
Furthermore, this includes but is not limited to payments for services or transfers of value (including but
not limited to fees for services, monetary donations, in-kind transfers of value, reimbursement of expenses,
or sponsorships) made to health care professionals, government officials, healthcare organizations, non-
profit associations, or patient organizations. Company is advised and agrees that Applicable Law,
regulations, and pharmaceutical industry association codes could require Nuvation to disclose such
information on an individual basis clearly identifying the recipient and the amounts of payments or transfers
of value for services. Any payments or transfers of value made by Company on behalf of Nuvation shall
be provided to Nuvation at intervals (provided to Nuvation by the 15th of the month following the payment
or transfer of value) and in a format defined by Nuvation, as such format may be reasonably amended by
Nuvation in its sole discretion, to satisfy Nuvation's business needs and current and future reporting
requirements under local, state and federal laws, rules, regulations, and agreements. For the avoidance of
doubt, these reporting obligations are designed to ensure compliance with applicable reporting laws and
Nuvation's governmental reporting obligations, including, but not limited to, the Physician Payment
Sunshine Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7h.

(h) Adverse Event Reporting. This Section 4(h) shall only apply if an applicable SOW
expressly states that adverse event reporting is included in the Services. For the purposes of this Agreement,
“Adverse Event" shall mean any event reportable under the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21, Section
314.80 (Post-Marketing Reporting of Adverse Drug Experiences). If Company, in connection with the
Services, becomes aware of any Adverse Event, or a suspected drug interaction, product complaint, or any
other physical or mental symptom or complaint of any kind reported by any patient, HCP, Customer or
other person regarding any of Nuvation's products, then Company shall report same within one (1) business
day to Nuvation using the FDA MedWatch Form. Company shall obtain and forward to Nuvation the
reporter's contact information (i.e., date, time, name, address and telephone number) and a brief description
of the Adverse Event and/or product complaint information. Upon request by Nuvation, Company shall: (i)
have all staff who may be in a position to receive reports of Adverse Events, special situation reports, or
product complaints receive training on reporting of Adverse Events, special situation reports, and product
complaints, (ii) have such training documented and to provide such documentation to Nuvation upon
written request, and (iii) ensure Company's staff follow the procedures outlined in such training.

(i) Data Protection. Both Parties shall comply with all applicable data privacy laws
and regulations, this Agreement and the Data Privacy & Security Addendum attached hereto as Exhibit A.
In addition, Company shall comply with Nuvation's reasonable instructions when processing personal
information under this Agreement. Nuvation will provide Company with written notice prior to providing
Company any "personal data" (as such term is defined in the General Data Protection Regulation
(Regulation (EU) 2016/679) “GDPR”) of persons located within the European Union and/or the European
economic area and the Parties will in good faith execute e standard contractual clauses for the transfer of
personal data to processors established in third countries as set out in European Commission Decision
2010/87/EU, and any amendments or successors to the same.

## 5. CONFIDENTIALITY.

(a) Confidential Information. “Confidential Information” means any and all
confidential, proprietary and/or trade secret information or materials that are disclosed by or on behalf of a
Party or its Affiliates (the “Disclosing Party”) to the other Party or its Affiliates (the “Recipient”) under this
Agreement, in each case so long as such data or information would be reasonably understood to be
confidential given the nature of the information or the circumstances surrounding its disclosure.
Confidential Information may include, without limitation, business plans, business practices, business
records, compounds, concepts, current and past distribution and production arrangements, customer
information, data, Deliverables, designs, devices, employee information, financial information, formulas,
intellectual property, inventions, know-how, marketing and sales strategies, materials, methods, plans,
procedures, processes, products and future products, protocols, research and development data and plans,
software, specifications, technical information and trade secrets. The terms of this Section 5 shall govern
the exchange of Confidential Information between Company, Nuvation, and any Affiliate of either Party,
in connection with this Agreement.

(b) Non-Disclosure and Non-Use. Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement,
Recipient shall maintain the Confidential Information in confidence, and not disclose the Confidential
Information to any third party or use the Confidential Information for its benefit or the benefit of any third
party, without the prior written consent of the Disclosing Party. Recipient shall use the Confidential
Information only as is necessary to perform the Services and/or fulfill its obligations pursuant to this
Agreement or the exercise of its rights expressly set forth in this Agreement, and shall limit any disclosure
to its directors, officers, employees, consultants, agents and permitted subcontractors (“Representatives”)
on a "need-to-know" basis for purposes of performing the Services and/or fulfilling its obligations under
this Agreement. Recipient shall cause its Representatives to comply with confidentiality obligations that
are consistent with the confidentiality obligations set forth in this Section 5 and shall be liable for any
violation of the confidentiality obligations set forth in this Section 5 by any of its Representatives. Recipient
shall protect the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information with at least the same degree of care that
Recipient uses to protect its own Confidential Information, but in no case less than reasonable care.

(c) Exceptions. Confidential Information shall not include any information that
Recipient can demonstrate by competent written evidence: (i) was previously in its possession without
violation of any obligation of confidentiality; (ii) has become publicly known through no wrongful act of
Recipient; (iii) was received by Recipient from a third party without restriction as to the use and disclosure
of such information as; or (iv) was independently developed by Recipient without use of the Disclosing
Party's Confidential Information.

(d) Authorized Disclosures. Confidential Information may be disclosed by Recipient
if Recipient is required by a valid order of a court or other governmental body or otherwise required by the
law to disclose such Confidential Information; provided, however, that Recipient shall give the Disclosing
Party timely written notice of such a requirement (if permissible and reasonable under the
circumstances) before doing so and shall reasonably cooperate with the Disclosing Party to seek a protective
order, confidential treatment or other appropriate measures.

(e) Injunctive Relief and Irreparable Harm. Recipient agrees that Recipient's breach
of the obligations of this Section 5 may cause the Disclosing Party irreparable damage for which recovery
of money damages may be inadequate. The Disclosing Party will, therefore, be entitled to seek timely
injunctive relief to protect its rights under this Agreement, in addition to any and all remedies available at
law or equity.

(f) Return of Confidential Information. Upon request of the Disclosing Party,
Recipient shall: (i) return to the Disclosing Party all tangible forms of the Confidential Information; and (ii)
destroy all electronic forms of the Confidential Information and all notes, reports or other documents
prepared by Recipient that contains any Confidential Information, and in each case of (i) and (ii), in
Recipient's possession, custody or control, within 30 days of such request; provided however, that Recipient
may retain a single copy of the Confidential Information for the sole purpose of determining the scope of
Recipient's obligations under this Agreement. The returning of Confidential Information shall not relieve
Recipient from compliance with other terms and conditions of this Agreement.

(g) Survival. The confidentiality and non-use obligations set forth in this Section 5,
shall survive expiration or any termination of this Agreement and will continue for a period of five (5) years
following the effective date of such expiration or termination of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, trade secrets shall be treated as Confidential Information for as long as they retain their status as
trade secrets.

## 6. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

(a) Definitions.

“Intellectual Property" shall mean any and all ideas, concepts, discoveries, inventions,
developments, formulae, processes, know-how, trade secrets, techniques, methodologies, modifications,
analyses, innovations, inventions, improvements, processes, writings, documentation, software code,
algorithms, marks, data and rights (whether or not protectable under state, federal or foreign patent,
trademark, copyright or similar laws) or the like, whether or not written or otherwise fixed in any form or
medium, regardless of the media on which contained and whether or not patentable or copyrightable, and
all intellectual property rights therein.

“Platform” means Solstice's cloud-based AI-powered platform that is designed to assistant
customers with reviewing and generating certain promotional and marketing assets for life sciences
marketing.

"Input" means marketing assets, prompts, parameters, and other information that are input
to the Platform by Nuvation and Nuvation's authorized employee users of the Platform ("Authorized
Users”) for the purpose of generating Output.

"Output" means output that is generated by the Platform in response to Nuvation and
Authorized User's Inputs, including reports and feedback about such Inputs, modified versions of such
Inputs, or new or additional assets.

(b) Company Intellectual Property. The Parties acknowledge and agree that all
Intellectual Property owned by or licensed to Company prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement, or
made by Company during the Term independent of this Agreement and not incorporating or resulting from
access to any Intellectual Property or Confidential Information owned or controlled by Nuvation, shall
remain the owned or licensed property of Company (“Company IP"). To the extent Company incorporates
any Company IP into any Deliverable, Company hereby grants to Nuvation a perpetual, non-transferable,
worldwide, nonexclusive, royalty-free license under such Company IP to use the Company IP solely as
incorporated into the Deliverables and solely in connection with Nuvation's use of the Deliverables in
accordance with this Agreement.

(c) Nuvation Intellectual Property. As between the parties, Nuvation shall own all
right, title and interest in and to: (i) the Deliverables and all Intellectual Property therein (other than
Company IP), and (ii) all Outputs (subject to the terms set forth in the applicable SOW) (“Nuvation IP”).
Company hereby assigns to Nuvation all right, title, and interest in all such Nuvation IP. Company agrees
to execute such documents and take such action as Nuvation may reasonably request (at Nuvation's
reasonable expense) to memorialize, secure and perfect Nuvation's interest in such Nuvation IP.

(d) No Other Rights. Except as set forth in this Agreement, neither Party shall acquire
any license or other Intellectual Property interest, by implication or otherwise, under or to any Intellectual
Property owned or controlled by the other Party.

## 7. INDEMNIFICATION.

(a) By Company. Company shall indemnify and hold Nuvation and its Affiliates,
officers, directors, agents and employees harmless from and defend against any and all third party liabilities,
losses, damages or expenses of any kind, including costs and reasonable attorneys' fees (collectively
“Losses”) arising out of or resulting from any third party suits, proceedings, actions, claims or demands
(collectively, "Claims”) to the extent resulting from: (i) any grossly negligent or willful acts or omissions
by Company or its agents or permitted subcontractors in connection with their performance of the Services;
(ii) Company's or Company's permitted subcontractor's failure to comply with Applicable Laws; (iii) any
material breach of Company's representations and warranties in this Agreement by Company; (iv) any
determination by a court or agency that Company is not an independent contractor of Nuvation; or (vi)
claims that Deliverables provided by Company to Nuvation infringe upon the Intellectual Property rights
of a third party, except to the extent such a claim results from materials provided to Company by Nuvation
or Nuvation's alteration of such materials or Deliverables. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company will
not be obligated to indemnify any Nuvation indemnitee to the extent that the applicable Claim is within
the scope of Nuvation's indemnification obligations under Section 7(b).

(b) By Nuvation. Nuvation shall indemnify and hold Company and its Affiliates,
officers, directors, agents, and employees harmless from and defend against any and all third party Losses
arising out of or resulting from Claims to the extent resulting from: (i) any grossly negligent or willful acts
or omissions by Nuvation in connection with their performance of the Services; (ii) Nuvation's failure to
comply with any Applicable Laws; (iii) any material breach of this Agreement by Nuvation; or (iv) any
breach of any representation or warranty by Nuvation in this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Nuvation will not be obligated to indemnify any Company indemnitee to the extent that the applicable
Claim is within the scope of Company's indemnification obligations under Section 7(a) above.

(c) Indemnification Conditions and Procedures. Each Party's agreement to indemnify,
defend and hold the other Party harmless pursuant to this Section 7 is conditioned upon the indemnified
Party: (i) providing prompt written notice to the other Party of any relevant Claim; (ii) assisting and fully
cooperating with the indemnifying Party, at the indemnifying Party's reasonable expense, in the
investigation of, preparation for and defense of any such Claim; (iii) permitting the indemnifying Party to
assume full responsibility and authority to investigate, prepare for, defend against and settle any such Claim;
and (iv) not compromising or settling any such Claim without the indemnifying Party's written consent;
provided, however, that the indemnified Party may participate in the defense of such Claim and employ, at
its own expense, counsel to assist. No Party will be responsible or bound by any settlement of any Claim
admitting fault or incurring any liability made without its prior written consent; provided, however, that the
indemnified Party will not unreasonably withhold or delay such consent.

(d) Limitation of Liability. NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE OR
LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT, FOR (I) ANY
AMOUNTS THAT IN THE AGGREGATE EXCEED TWICE THE FEES PAID OR PAYABLE BY
NUVATION TO COMPANY PURSUANT TO THE APPLICABLE SOW IN THE 12 MONTHS PRIOR
TO THE APPLICABLE CLAIM ARISING, OR (II) ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (INCLUDING FOR LOST PROFITS)
OR FOR ANY MATTER BEYOND ITS REASONABLE CONTROL, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
WARRANTY, NEGLIGENCE, TORT, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, ARISING OUT OF,
BASED ON, OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT (EVEN IF FORESEEABLE OR IN THE
CONTEMPLATION OF EITHER PARTY); PROVIDED THAT THE FOREGOING LIMITATION DOES
NOT APPLY TO: (i) BREACHES OF THE CONFIDENTIALITY OBLIGATIONS UNDER SECTION
5, (ii) BREACHES OF A THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OBLIGATIONS UNDER SECTION 6,
OR (iii) EITHER PARTY'S RESPECTIVE INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS UNDER SECTION
7(A)-(B), AS APPLICABLE.

## 8. AUDIT, REVIEW OF WORK AND INSPECTIONS.

(a) Audit. During the Term and for one (1) year thereafter, or such longer period as
may be required by Applicable Laws, Company shall permit Nuvation's external third party auditors to
audit books and records maintained by Company in connection with this Agreement as reasonably
necessary for Nuvation to verify Company's compliance with this Agreement, and the accuracy of amounts
invoiced and paid or payable by Nuvation; provided that such audits will be conducted no more than once
a calendar year, in accordance with mutually agreed upon terms and scope, and solely during normal
business hours at Company's offices in a manner that will not unduly interfere with Company's normal
course of business upon giving Company written notice at least 14 business days before the intended date
of such audit or inspection. Nuvation shall be solely responsible for all costs and expenses it incurs in
connection with any audit or inspection. If Nuvation engages a third party representative to perform audits,
Company may require such third party representative to enter into an appropriate written agreement
obligating it to be bound by obligations of confidentiality and restrictions on use of such Confidential
Information that are no less restrictive than the obligations set forth in Section 5 of this Agreement.

(b) [Intentionally omitted].

(c) Regulatory Inquiries and Inspections. Each Party acknowledges that the other
Party may respond independently to any regulatory correspondence or inquiry in which such Party or its
Affiliates is named, provided however, that Company shall reasonably consider any comments from
Nuvation related to such regulatory correspondence or inquiry if reasonably related to this Agreement.
Unless prohibited by applicable law, each Party, however, shall promptly notify the other Party of any
government or regulatory inspection, inquiry, or findings reasonably related to this Agreement. Company
shall notify Nuvation by telephone and email within twenty-four (24) hours of discovery of any
governmental or regulatory authority inspection of Company's, or Company's permitted subcontractors',
facilities or procedures (including SOPs), personnel, records (including Deliverables), provided that such
inspection relates to this Agreement or may materially impact such Services. During any such inspection,
Company shall provide periodic updates to Nuvation. If a deficiency or noncompliance pertaining to the
Services is identified to be caused by Company or any Company subcontractor's noncompliance with this
Agreement, Company will share the findings with Nuvation and promptly take corrective action to remedy
such deficiency or noncompliance, at Company's expense. Company shall provide Nuvation with a
description of any such proposed corrective action plan that includes a timeline for resolution.

## 9. INSURANCE. 
During the term of this Agreement and for one (1) year thereafter, each
Party shall maintain insurance coverage to cover its obligations under this Agreement and any SOWs
hereunder as follows: (a) general liability insurance in amounts of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence and
$2,000,000 in the aggregate, and (b) workers' compensation insurance in the amount of at least $1,000,000.
Each Party shall provide the other Party with a certificate of such insurance upon reasonable request.

## 10. DISPUTE RESOLUTION. 
In the event that any dispute arises relating to this Agreement,
the Parties shall promptly meet and attempt to resolve same through good faith discussions. If the Parties
are unable to resolve any dispute to their mutual satisfaction within 30 days after they commence
discussions regarding same, and do not agree to extend the 30-day dispute resolution period, then each
Party shall escalate such dispute to the president or CEO of such Party for resolution. The two executives
will use reasonable efforts to attempt to resolve the dispute through good faith negotiations. In the event
the dispute is not resolved through negotiation within 10 business days after said escalation, then each Party
will be free to pursue any available remedy at law or in equity. Each Party will bear its own legal fees and
any costs incurred under this Section.

## 11. NOTICES. 
All notices, requests and demands, other than routine communications under
this Agreement, will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by an
overnight courier with a reliable system for tracking delivery, or by email with email confirmation of receipt
by the recipient. Notices to each Party shall be sent to the person named at the signature line for such Party
and addressed as first set forth above. A copy of notices sent to Nuvation shall also be sent by email to
Contracts@nuvationbio.com. Either Party may from time to time change the individual(s) to receive
notices under this Section and/or its address for notification purposes by giving the other Party prior written
notice of the new individual(s) and/or address and the
