---
source: Solstice - Ipsen - Master Services Agreement 1Oct25 - signed.pdf
type: MSAs-Signed
extracted: 2026-01-19
---

```markdown
# Confidential
# IPSEN Contract No. CW298396

# IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
# MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT

THIS MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered into as of as the date of the last signature (the "Effective Date") between Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“IPSEN”), and Solstice Health, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (“Vendor"). In consideration of the mutual obligations specified in this Agreement, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:

## 1. Services and SOWs.

(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Vendor shall provide services hereunder ("Services") as set forth in one or more written statements of work executed by an authorized officer of each party, each of which shall contain such matters as the parties shall mutually agree, such mutual agreement to be evidenced by the execution thereof by an authorized officer of each party, and each of which shall be substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (each, a “SOW”). Each SOW shall specify, without limitation, the following: (i) the nature and scope of the Services to be provided thereunder by Vendor; (ii) all reports, analyses, materials, data, works, results, information, software, algorithms, other developments, information, deliverables and other tangible and intangible items to be delivered thereunder by Vendor (collectively, “Deliverables"); and (iii) the schedules and timetables for the performance of such Services and delivery of such Deliverables.

(b) The parties may make such modifications to a SOW as the parties shall mutually agree, such mutual agreement to be evidenced by the execution of a Change Order by an authorized officer of each party (each, a "Change Order"). Each Change Order shall specify, without limitation, the following: (i) the nature and scope of the Services to be provided thereunder by Vendor; (ii) the schedules and timetables for the performance of such Services; and (iii) increases or decreases in costs and/or fees. Each Change Order shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the applicable SOW, in addition to the specific terms and conditions set forth in such Change Order.

(c) Each SOW shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, in addition to the specific terms and conditions set forth in such SOW. To the extent any SOW conflicts with this Agreement, this Agreement shall control, except to the extent that such SOW expressly states an intent to supersede this Agreement on a specific matter (in which case, such SOW shall, to such extent, supersede this Agreement, but only with respect to such SOW and not with respect to other SOWs). Each SOW is hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made a part hereof for all purposes and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any breach of a SOW shall constitute a breach of this Agreement. Each reference in this Agreement to "this Agreement,” “herein", "hereof" and words of similar import shall, unless the context requires otherwise, mean and include this Agreement and each SOW.

(d) Except as expressly agreed to by IPSEN in a SOW, Vendor shall not, in connection with the Services provided hereunder, make any payments or other transfer of value to Healthcare Providers (as defined below) or IPSEN Customers (as defined below). As used herein, the term "Healthcare Provider” or “HCP” is broadly defined to include individual health care providers (such as physicians, nurses and pharmacists), health care institutions (such as hospitals and ambulatory centers), health care insurance payers, pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs), managed care organizations, other persons or entities involved in formulary decisions or other health care coverage decisions (e.g., pharmacy and therapeutic committee members), or individuals employed by or affiliated with any of these organizations. As used herein, the term "IPSEN Customer” means any health care professional and any other person or entity in a position to purchase, recommend, refer, or arrange for the purchase, sale, or formulary placement of IPSEN products, including but not limited to, hospitals, pharmacies, pharmacy benefit managers, group purchasing organizations, wholesalers, insurers, and any individual employed by such entities with responsibility or authority to purchase, prescribe, recommend, influence or arrange for the purchase or sale of IPSEN products. For the avoidance of doubt, the term “IPSEN Customers” shall, for purposes of this Agreement, include patient advocacy groups and support organizations.

(e) The parties hereby agree that any Affiliate of IPSEN shall, upon mutual agreement with Vendor, be able to obtain Services from Vendor under this Agreement by entering into a separate SOW for such Services and shall be solely responsible to Vendor for the payment of the fees and expenses under such SOW. In the case where an Affiliate of IPSEN executes a SOW directly with Vendor (or an Affiliate thereof) pursuant to this Agreement, such Affiliate of IPSEN shall be considered to be “IPSEN” as defined in this Agreement for purposes of such SOW and shall have the same rights and obligations of IPSEN under this Agreement. Each SOW executed by an Affiliate of IPSEN shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, in addition to the specific terms and conditions set forth in such SOW. To the extent any such SOW conflicts with this Agreement, this Agreement shall control, except to the extent that such SOW expressly states an intent to supersede this Agreement on a specific matter (in which case, such SOW shall, to such extent, supersede this Agreement, but only with respect to such SOW and not with respect to other SOW). For purposes of this Agreement, Affiliate or affiliate shall mean any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with a party hereto.

## 2. Compensation and Invoices; Compliance with Certain Policies.I

(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, (i) IPSEN shall pay Vendor for Services as set forth in each SOW and (ii) payment for Services and, if applicable, reimbursement of expenses, shall be made to Vendor within sixty (60) days after IPSEN receives a proper, correct and detailed invoice in accordance with this Agreement. All invoices will be sent to IPSEN at its address set forth herein, Attention: Accounts Payable, will reference the applicable SOW and IPSEN purchase order, will include an itemized list of all fees and charges set forth therein, and will contain such other information as IPSEN shall reasonably request. Except as set forth in the applicable SOW, Vendor will invoice IPSEN as follows:

   i) For fees charged on a time and materials basis, Vendor will invoice IPSEN within five (5) days after the end of each calendar month for Services provided during the preceding calendar month. In addition to other information required thereon, each such invoice will set forth the person performing Services, such person's title or designation and hourly rate, the number of hours of services performed by such person, and a description of the Services performed.
   ii) For fees charged based on the achievement of a milestone, Vendor will invoice IPSEN upon the achievement of the milestone, with each such invoice stating that the applicable milestone has been achieved.
   iii) For expenses eligible for reimbursement pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the applicable SOW, Vendor will invoice IPSEN within five (5) days after the end of each calendar month for all such expenses incurred during the preceding calendar month, with each invoice setting forth in detail the expenses covered thereby, accompanied by receipts for such expenses.

(b) Except as set forth in the applicable SOW, IPSEN will have no obligation to reimburse Vendor for any expenses incurred. If a SOW provides for IPSEN's reimbursement of expenses: (i) only actual, out-of-pocket expenses incurred (without mark-up and incurred in a good faith, arm's-length transaction) that are necessary for the performance of the Services will be reimbursed; (ii) for travel, food and lodging expenses, only expenses incurred in accordance with the following policies will be reimbursed: IPSEN's Travel Policy. Vendor acknowledges receipt of the above-referenced IPSEN Travel Policy and agrees to comply with such policy to the extent applicable to the Vendor's activities hereunder.

(c) Vendor represents and warrants that all information set forth in each invoice hereunder shall be true, correct and complete and will comply with the requirements of this Agreement. If an amount is billed for a permitted subcontractor's or other third-party provider's services, a copy of such provider's invoice shall be attached to the reconciliation submitted by Vendor. To the extent that IPSEN has paid Vendor for third party provider's invoices, Vendor shall bear the responsibility to make payment to the third-party provider and Vendor shall indemnify and hold harmless IPSEN from Vendor's failure to do SO.

(d) Without IPSEN's prior written authorization, Vendor shall not be entitled to any payment by IPSEN pursuant to a SOW in excess of the budgeted amounts set forth in such SOW.

(e) IPSEN will use good-faith efforts to notify Vendor within ninety (90) days of its receipt of an invoice if it disputes such invoice or any portion thereof, which notification will contain the basis of IPSEN's dispute, and work in good faith with Vendor to resolve such dispute.

(f) As a condition to receiving payments hereunder, Vendor shall provide IPSEN with: (i) such duly completed tax forms and tax information as IPSEN shall reasonably require (including, without limitation, IRS Form W-9, Vendor's Federal taxpayer identification number and IRS Form 8233); and (ii) [reserved]. Without limiting IPSEN's rights and remedies pursuant to this Agreement or applicable Law (as defined below), IPSEN may refuse payment of any invoice(s) that do not meet the requirements of this Agreement and the applicable SOW. As used herein, “Law” means any law, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, common law and other decisional law) or order, decree or interpretation of any court or other governmental agency or authority.

(g) This section will solely apply if Vendor makes any payment or other transfer of value to Healthcare Providers in connection with the Services provided pursuant to this Agreement. Vendor acknowledges and agrees that IPSEN and its affiliates have obligations to disclose transfers of value to Healthcare Providers and IPSEN Customers as required by applicable law, regulation and company policy. These disclosures shall include, but are not limited to, required disclosures to the United States Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to the "sunshine" provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7h, and its implementing rules and regulations. These disclosure obligations include any transfers of value to Healthcare Providers and IPSEN Customers made pursuant a SOW to this Agreement (including, without limitation, fees and expenses paid by Vendor on IPSEN's behalf to Healthcare Providers and IPSEN Customers). Vendor acknowledges and agrees that IPSEN may disclose transfers of value to Vendor pursuant to this Agreement (including, without limitation, fees and expenses paid by IPSEN for work performed by Vendor under this Agreement) and the information contained in Disbursement Records (as defined in Section 5(h)) to the extent IPSEN determines (in its sole discretion) that the disclosure thereof is required by applicable Law or IPSEN policy. Such disclosure may include, without limitation disclosure to governmental or regulatory agencies or authorities and listing on the web site(s) of IPSEN or its affiliates. For any such transfers of value made by Vendor to Healthcare Providers and IPSEN Customers pursuant to a SOW, Vendor shall provide a detailed breakdown of actual payments and other transfers of value to including but not limited to fees, travel expenses, lodging, meals etc. within thirty (30) days of the date of payment. Such breakdown shall be provided in an electronic spreadsheet format as specified by IPSEN and provided to Vendor. Such format may be changed by IPSEN, from time to time, during the term hereof, as long as IPSEN provides Vendor with 30 days' prior written notice of such change. Such information shall include individual HCP identifiers such as NPI, state license numbers, or other individual identifiers. Vendor acknowledges and agrees that, under no circumstances, will it transmit Social Security Numbers of HCPs as part of such disclosure. The parties acknowledge and agree that transfers of value paid to participants in market research that is either double-blinded or manufacturer-blinded (in either case of which Vendor shall not identify the primary research participants to IPSEN) may be withheld from IPSEN if determined by IPSEN that they are not reportable under applicable Law.

(h) The parties acknowledge that the compensation to be paid and/or expenses to be reimbursed hereunder will be determined through good faith and arm's-length negotiation to be the fair market value of the Services rendered or to be rendered by Vendor, and that Vendor is not required to purchase, order, or otherwise recommend in any manner (including, without limitation, directly or through formulary or guideline placement) any of Ipsen's or its Affiliates' products.

## 3. Confidentiality.

(a) "Confidential Information" of a Disclosing Party (defined below) means any and all data and information (whether oral, written, electronic, visual or in some other form, and whether or not identified as confidential) disclosed by one party hereunder (a “Disclosing Party") to the other party (a "Receiving Party") (i) relating to the Disclosing Party's or any of its Affiliates' products, services, operations, processes, policies, plans, strategies, designs, systems, clinical and other programs, techniques, suppliers, prospective suppliers, customers, prospective customers, employees, contractors, financial information (including, without limitation, historical information, projections, forecasts, and cost and pricing data), policies and practices (including, without limitation, those pertaining to finance and accounting, and standard operating procedures), research and development (including, without limitation, plans for research and development, and products and portions thereof in development), studies (including, without limitation, clinical protocols), surveys, assay samples, formulas, compounds, data (including, without limitation, test data and clinical data), inventions, ideas, patent applications,

drawings and claims, trade secrets, and know-how, (ii) provided to the Disclosing Party or any of its Affiliates by a third party on a confidential basis, and/or (iii) otherwise disclosed by or on behalf of the Disclosing Party to the Receiving Party or any of the Receiving Party's Representatives (as defined below) or to which the Receiving Party or any of the Receiving Party's Representatives otherwise has access as a result of this Agreement, in each case of (i) through (iii), solely to the extent such data or information would be reasonably understood to be confidential given the nature of the information or the circumstances surrounding its disclosure. In addition to, and without limitation of, the foregoing, the Inventions and Works (as defined below) shall constitute Confidential Information of Vendor.

(b) Confidential Information shall not include information that the Receiving Party can demonstrate by written records: (i) was already in the possession of the Receiving Party before disclosure thereof by the Disclosing Party to the Receiving Party, (ii) is independently developed by the Receiving Party without use of or reference to any Confidential Information, (iii) is or becomes publicly available without breach of this Agreement by the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives, or (iv) is obtained by the Receiving Party from a third party under no obligation of confidentiality to the Disclosing Party. For the avoidance of doubt, Usage Data, Aggregated Data, and Feedback will not be deemed IPSEN Confidential Information.

(c) The Confidential Information will be held by the Receiving Party in strictest confidence at all times and will not be disclosed by the Receiving Party to anyone, except as expressly permitted by this Agreement. The Receiving Party will not use or allow the use of the Confidential Information for any purpose, except to the extent required for the Receiving Party's performance of its obligations or exercise of its rights pursuant to this Agreement. Except for the limited right of use set forth in the preceding sentence, no right, title or interest, whether express or implied, is granted to the Receiving Party in the Confidential Information.

(d) The Receiving Party may disclose the Confidential Information to the Receiving Party's Representatives who need to know such Confidential Information for purposes of the Receiving Party's performance of its obligations or exercise of its rights pursuant to this Agreement; provided that, prior to such disclosure, the Receiving Party shall have informed such Representatives of the confidential nature of such Confidential Information and such Representatives shall have agreed in writing to treat such Confidential Information in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or are otherwise bound by confidentiality, non-use and non-disclosure terms that are consistent with those of this Agreement. The Receiving Party will be responsible for any breach of this Agreement by it or any of its Representatives. As used herein, the Receiving Party's "Representatives” means the Receiving Party's officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents.

(e) If the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives becomes required pursuant to applicable Law to disclose any Confidential Information, then (i) the Receiving Party will promptly notify the Disclosing Party thereof in writing (to the extent legally permitted) so that the Disclosing Party may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, (ii) neither the Receiving Party nor any of its Representatives will oppose any action by the Disclosing Party to obtain such a protective order or other appropriate remedy, and the Receiving Party and its Representatives will reasonably cooperate with the Disclosing Party (at the Disclosing Party's expense) in seeking such a protective order or other appropriate remedy and (iii) in any event, the Receiving Party and its Representatives may disclose only that portion of the Confidential Information that the Receiving Party or such Representatives (as applicable) are legally required to disclose.

(f) Upon the earlier of any termination of this Agreement or the Disclosing Party's request therefor, the Receiving party shall promptly return and deliver to the Disclosing Party all Confidential Information and tangible and intangible property of the Disclosing Party or any of its affiliates that has been provided under this Agreement, together with all copies thereof and information and materials derived therefrom (without retaining any copies thereof), in each case, except to the extent necessary to perform its obligations or exercise its rights pursuant to this Agreement..

(g) The parties agree that the Disclosing Party may be irreparably injured by a breach of this Section 3 by the Receiving Party that may not be compensable in money damages. Accordingly, in addition to any other rights and remedies of the Disclosing Party pursuant to this Agreement and applicable Law, the Disclosing Party may seek injunctive and other equitable relief with respect to any breach or threatened breach of such Sections of this Agreement.

## 4. Inventions and Works.

(a) Any and all Deliverables and other inventions, discoveries, formulas, processes, methods, know-how, compounds, techniques, improvements and work products (including, without limitation, reports, analyses, materials, data, works, results, information, software, algorithms, other developments, information, deliverables and other tangible and intangible items), which Vendor makes, conceives, produces, learns or reduces to practice, in each case alone or jointly with others and whether or not patentable, that Vendor delivers (or is required to deliver) to IPSEN or any of its affiliates pursuant to this Agreement (including, without limitation, any SOW) (collectively, "Inventions and Works"), and all rights therein (including, without limitation, copyright, patent rights, trade secret rights and any other intellectual and industrial property rights of any kind), shall be Vendor's sole and exclusive property; provided that subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, IPSEN shall have the right to use the Services and Deliverables as expressly set forth in the applicable SOW. For the avoidance of doubt, the Inventions and Works shall include without limitation the Vendor Property and the Vendor Property Improvements (each, as defined below).

(b) All notes and records kept by Vendor in connection with Vendor's provision of Services will be and remain Vendor's exclusive property.

(c) It is acknowledged that Vendor possesses its own technologies, processes, know-how, trade secrets, and other intellectual property (collectively, "Vendor Property"). Vendor and IPSEN agree that all Vendor Property and all Vendor Property Improvements (as defined below) that are not based on or derived from any IPSEN Confidential Information shall be and remain the property of Vendor. "Vendor Property Improvements” means any and all improvements to, and modification of, Vendor Property made by or on behalf of Vendor during the performance of this Agreement that meet all of the following criteria: such improvements and modifications do not use, arise out of, result from or include (in each case, in whole or in part), and are not based (in whole or part) upon, Confidential Information, any products of IPSEN or any of its affiliates, or any other tangible or intangible property of IPSEN or any of its affiliates.

## 5. Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Vendor; Records and Audit.

(a) Vendor represents and warrants that: (i) it is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation, and has full corporate or other power to enter into this Agreement and perform its obligations hereunder; (ii) it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder, and the person or persons executing this Agreement on its behalf has been duly authorized to do so by all requisite corporate or other action; and (iii) this Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of Vendor, enforceable in accordance with its terms.

(b) Vendor represents, warrants and agrees that: (i) Vendor and all of Vendor's personnel who perform the Services have, and all such personnel will, maintain all governmental rights, licenses, permits and consents necessary to perform the Services hereunder; (ii) Vendor and all of Vendor's personnel will comply in all respects with all applicable Laws; and (iii) neither this Agreement, nor the execution and delivery by Vendor hereof, nor the performance by Vendor of any of its obligations hereunder, will violate, conflict with, or result in a breach of or a default under (A) any agreement, instrument or other obligation to which Vendor or any of its affiliates is a party or by which Vendor or any of its affiliates is bound or (B) any applicable Law to which the Vendor or any of its affiliates is subject or by which the Vendor or any of its affiliates is bound.

(c) Vendor represents, warrants and agrees that neither Vendor nor any personnel performing Services hereunder has been excluded from participation in any Federal healthcare programs (“Exclusion"), which is defined as being: (1) convicted of any of the felonies identified among the exclusion authorities listed on the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (OIG) website, including but not limited to 42 U.S.C. 1320a-7(a) http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud.asp; (2) identified in the OIG List of Excluded Individuals/Entities (LEIE) database http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/exclusions.asp or identified on the U.S. General Services Administration's System for Award Management (SAM) (https://www.sam.gov/portal/SAM/#1#1) as a party excluded from receiving certain federal contracts, subcontracts, and financial and non-financial assistance and benefits; (3) convicted of a felony for conduct relating to the regulation or handling of any drug product or (4) listed by any U.S. Federal or state agency as being suspended, debarred (including, without limitation, pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 335a), excluded, or otherwise ineligible to participate in Federal or state procurement or non-procurement programs. During the term of this Agreement, Vendor shall notify IPSEN in writing

promptly if any such Exclusion occurs. IPSEN shall also have the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate this Agreement immediately upon notice to Vendor in the event of any such Exclusion.

(d) Vendor will notify IPSEN promptly (to the extent legally permitted) if the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (or any successor thereto) or any other governmental or regulatory agency or authority communicates with Vendor with respect to the Services, or requests permission to or does inspect Vendor's records or facilities in connection with the Services, and Vendor will, to the extent legally permitted, deliver promptly to IPSEN all material materials, correspondence, statements, forms and records that Vendor receives, obtains or generates in connection with any such inspection or communications

(e) Vendor acknowledges that IPSEN is subject to extensive federal, state and other Laws, providing, among other things, that vendors supplying IPSEN with products, supplies, equipment or services (which may be used in the production or testing of medicines or pharmaceuticals or which may affect medical or pharmaceutical data), must meet certain regulatory minimum validation requirements, and that IPSEN must perform quality assurance audits on any such vendors and must allow access by applicable governmental and regulatory agencies or authorities as requested. Vendor agrees to reasonably cooperate with IPSEN in satisfying these requirements, as applicable, including, without limitation, by allowing IPSEN and any such governmental and regulatory agencies and authorities to perform any legally required audits of Vendor's records and/or facilities and by providing IPSEN and any such governmental and regulatory agencies and authorities with any reasonably necessary information and materials.

(f) Vendor represents and warrants that: (i) the Services and all deliverables provided hereunder will conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof in this Agreement (including, without limitation, in the applicable SOWs); and (ii) the Services will be conducted in accordance with applicable industry standards. If Vendor breaches any of the warranties set forth in this Section 5(f), and IPSEN notifies Vendor of such breach in writing, then Vendor will use reasonable efforts to correct the non-conformity. If Vendor cannot do so within 30 days of receipt of IPSEN's warranty claim, either party may terminate the affected SOW. Vendor will then refund to IPSEN any pre-paid, unused fees for the terminated portion of the applicable SOW term. This Section sets forth IPSEN's exclusive remedy and Vendor's entire liability for breach of the warranty set forth in this Section 5(f). These warranties do not apply to: (i) issues caused by IPSEN's or its users' misuse of or unauthorized modifications to the applicable Service; (ii) issues in or caused by third-party systems; or (iii) use of the applicable Service other than according to the documentation provided by Solstice therefor.

(g) Vendor represents and warrants to its knowledge that the Services, the Inventions and Works, and the Vendor Property and Vendor Property Improvements licensed hereunder, will not infringe any patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or other intellectual property rights of any third party.

(h) The parties agree to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations as amended from time to time, including, the EU Regulation 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons about the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (the “GDPR”) to the extent applicable. Vendor's use, Collection, disclosure, storage, or processing ("Processing”) of "Personal Information” (as such term is defined under the CCPA), will be governed by the terms of this Agreement and in accordance with applicable law. Vendor Processes Personal Information received or collected from or on behalf of Ipsen only for the purpose of providing the Services described in the Agreement and as otherwise expressly permitted herein, including any Statement of Work or Exhibit. Vendor may not "Sell” (as such term is defined under the CCPA), retain, use, or disclose Personal Information for any other purpose, including any other "Commercial Purpose" (as such term is defined under the CCPA) (except as otherwise permitted by the California Consumer Protection Act (Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1798.100 – 1798.199) and any implementing regulations, (collectively, the “CCPA”)), to provide services to another person or entity, or outside of the direct business relationship between Ipsen and Vendor. Vendor acknowledges that it understands these restrictions and will comply with them. Any capitalized terms not defined elsewhere in the Agreement and used in this section will have meaning given in the ССРА.

   i) Vendor will provide IPSEN with all reasonable assistance required to comply with a Consumer's request under the CCPA, including deleting, providing access, or stopping the "Sale" (as such term is defined under the CCPA) of any Personal Information.

   ii) Vendor will implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the Personal Information processed under this Agreement. These procedures and practices will include all applicable requirements. If Vendor does not implement a requirement, Vendor will maintain and provide to IPSEN documentation describing equivalent safeguards used to protect Personal Information.

(i) Vendor shall keep complete, truthful, accurate and authentic accounts, notes, data and records of the Services and all payments made hereunder or contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, Vendor's disbursement of funds that are submitted for reimbursement to IPSEN or otherwise funded hereunder) (collectively, “Records") and shall retain such Records for seven (7) years (or such longer period as Vendor is required to retain such records pursuant to applicable Law). In the event Records involve the disbursement of funds, such Records shall include, without limitation, the following for each such disbursement (such Records are “Disbursement Records"): (i) the date, amount and method of payment; (ii) the payment recipient; (iii) whether the recipient is a Healthcare Professional, Customer or is affiliated with any healthcare institution (including, without limitation, a hospital, clinic or other facility engaged in the provision of healthcare services or other services that are subject to funding or reimbursement by a government or non-government healthcare payer) or government or non-government healthcare payer (including, without limitation, any business, entity or organization responsible for formulary or coverage determinations); and (iv) the reason for the payment. Vendor shall maintain all Records in accordance with all applicable Laws. During the term of this Agreement and for three (3) years after its termination, (1) Vendor shall, upon IPSEN's request, provide all Disbursement Records for payments to Healthcare Professionals on behalf of IPSEN, if any, to IPSEN in such form and format as IPSEN shall reasonably request; and (2) IPSEN shall have the right no more than one time per calendar year, upon reasonable written notice to Vendor, to audit Records and Vendor's facilities through an independent third party auditor and at IPSEN's sole expense and solely to the extent necessary to confirm compliance with this Agreement, to evaluate and confirm the determination of amounts charged to IPSEN hereunder, and to audit billed expenses versus actual receipts. Vendor shall reasonably cooperate with any such audit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, IPSEN's rights to request Records and IPSEN's audit rights with respect to the Records shall be limited to participant de-identified data only for payments made by Vendor in connection with market research that is either double-blinded or manufacturer-blinded (in which case Vendor has not identified the primary research participants to IPSEN).

(j) Vendor represents, warrants and covenants that it will at all times comply with the Code of Standards and Ethics for Marketing Research and Data Analytics promulgated by Insights Association, as may be amended from time to time (the "Market Research Industry Code”), in conducting the Services and that it will promptly notify IPSEN of any deviations from the Market Research Industry Code in its performance of the Services.

## 6. Compliance.

(a) Compliance with Laws and Regulations. In performing its obligation under this Agreement, Vendor complies with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and codes of practice/codes of conduct ("Applicable Laws"), including without limitation, to the extent applicable, the codes of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). In particular, Vendor undertakes to comply with the principles set forth in the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions and with the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, Sapin II Law and any other local Bribery or Anti-Corruption laws if applicable while performing the Services.

(b) Ethical Standards, Policies, Procedures, or Guidelines. Vendor agrees to perform its obligations hereunder with integrity, honesty and fairness and always comply with the highest ethical standards and policies, procedures or guidelines as agreed with Ipsen.

(c) Anti-Corruption Representation and Warranties. Vendor shall cause its personnel and subcontractors to adhere at all times to the following provisions:

   i) Not offer, promise, make, authorize or provide, directly or indirectly, a gift, payment or anything of value to a Government Official or private sector employee, in order to influence or reward any action or

decision by such person in his or her official or professional capacity, for the purpose of corruptly obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper advantage
   ii) Never engage in any act that might cause a reasonable person to infer that IPSEN makes improper payments to officials or other persons.
   iii) Not offer nor receive any facilitating payment in return for services which the payer is legally entitled to receive without making such payment, with the exception of the rare situation that a facilitating payment is offered to protect against an imminent threat of serious physical harm.
   iv) Not supply, offer nor promise any gift or advantage, pecuniary or in kind, to persons qualified to prescribe or supply pharmaceutical products nor provide donations to individuals or organizations to receive undo or improper advantage. For the purpose of this section, “donation” shall mean the act of providing funds, services, products, with charitable intent, i.e., without any expressed or implied benefit in return, other than general goodwill.
   v) Implement adequate compliance infrastructure related to the contractually agreed activities including without limitation policies and procedures, trainings and communication, to address and mitigate the associated risks
   vi) Abide by IPSEN Business Partner's Code for Conduct, which is annexed at Exhibit B hereto.

(d) Forced Labor and Modern Slavery. Vendor represents, warrants, and agrees that it has thoroughly investigated its labor practices, and it, and to its knowledge its subcontractors and suppliers performing Services hereunder this agreement, have not been engaged in or suspected of engagement in forced labor and/or modern slavery (“Forced Labor"). Vendor has put in place reasonable processes, procedures, investigations, and compliance systems designed to ensure that it can provide the warranties under this clause; and it has taken, and will take in the future, reasonable actions, and investigations to validate the warranties provided under this clause.

(e) Termination. Failure by Vendor to comply with any provision under this Section 6 shall be considered a material breach and IPSEN shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement in accordance with Section 7(d). In addition, IPSEN is entitled to immediately terminate this Agreement without any compensation whatsoever to Vendor in case that: (i) Vendor or any of its shareholders, directors or legal representatives are included in any official trade and economic sanctions list or (ii) the Services covered by this Agreement fall(s) within a category of products or services which is included in an official trade and economic sanctions list. Such official trade and economic sanctions lists include, but are not limited to, the US Office of Foreign Assets Control list, the US Bureau of International Security and Non-Proliferation list, the European Union sanctions list and the United Nations sanctions list. Vendor also agrees to immediately terminate any agreement with a subcontractor of any of its rights or obligations hereunder for the provision of any Services hereunder or with any third party in connection with the Services hereunder, in the event it becomes aware that such subcontractor or third party or any of their shareholders, directors or legal representatives is included in any official trade and economic sanctions list. In this situation, if Vendor fails to terminate such agreement with such subcontractor or third party, IPSEN shall be entitled to immediately terminate this Agreement or the applicable SOW without any compensation whatsoever to Vendor.

(f) Audit Rights. IPSEN shall have the right, at any time but not more than once per twelve (12) month period, and by providing at least sixty (60) days' notice, to audit (unless otherwise required by regulation or other for cause reasons), through a qualified third party, at Vendor's premises, Vendor's documents, materials, correspondence, data, information, accounts, receipts, records, reports and work in progress, in each case solely to the extent necessary to verify compliance with its obligations under this Agreement and subject to Vendor's confidentiality obligations to third parties. IPSEN will bear all costs and expenses associated with the performance of such audit, except that Vendor shall provide all reasonably necessary support and cooperation for the performance of such audit at no additional cost or fee for IPSEN. IPSEN shall provide Vendor with relevant findings and Vendor agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to remediate any noncompliance with this Agreement identified by such audit according to the action plan agreed with IPSEN.

## 7. Term and Termination.

(a) This Agreement shall enter into effect as of the Effective Date and shall continue in full force and effect for a period of three (3) years from the Effective Date, unless earlier terminated in accordance with this Agreement.

(b) Notwithstanding Section 7(a) hereof, should any SOWs entered into during the term of this Agreement require Services to be performed beyond the expiry date of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in effect with respect to such SOW until its expiration or termination.

(c) IPSEN may terminate this Agreement or any SOW at any time and for any reason upon sixty (60) days prior written notice to Vendor.

(d) Either party (the "non-breaching party") may terminate this Agreement if the other party (the "breaching party") materially breaches this Agreement (including, without limitation, any SOW) and the breaching party fails to remedy such material breach within thirty (30) days after receiving written notice thereof from the non-breaching party (which notice describes the material breach in reasonable detail and demands its cure).

(e) IPSEN may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Vendor if, in IPSEN's reasonable opinion, the performance of this Agreement by either party would violate any applicable Law.

(f) The parties further agree as follows:

   i) Upon termination of this Agreement for any reason, each SOW shall terminate, except for any SOW that expressly states it shall survive termination of this Agreement (each, a "Surviving SOW").

   ii) If either party issues a notice of termination of this Agreement or any SOW in accordance with this Section for a reason other than IPSEN'
