---
source_pdf: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/127nEvrY_x0xHDHWm3Ni50C8UgBZxqHtsjArVcyLpVVI/view"
drive_folder: "Portfolio/Tuva"
type: portfolio
company: Tuva
ingested: 2025-12-23
original_filename: "Tuva.gdoc"
---

> **Original:** [View Original PDF](https://drive.google.com/file/d/127nEvrY_x0xHDHWm3Ni50C8UgBZxqHtsjArVcyLpVVI/view)

~$500K in ARR + following OS metrics

1. users running project in production: ~50

2. users from mid-market / enterprise: 10-20

3. users in slack/discord: 500 - 1K

4. # of github issues (shows deep engagement): 100-300 issues

5. # of github stars: 3-5K

Aaron/CoCo,

Looking forward to our chat tomorrow. Regardless of how everything ultimately sharks out over the coming weeks/months, we foresee a more difficult fundraising environment and lower graduation rates. As we’ve been discussing, we want to stay away from solely focusing on revenue and customer metrics alone, but still put some structure around the GTM/commercial side We’d like to spend some time walking through 2 areas

Open-source metrics for Series A. Cowboy ventures put together data from a survey of 18 investors about what they are looking for in a Series A for open-source companies. Metrics include users running project in production, users from mid-market / enterprise, users in slack/discord, # of github issues/stars. It would be great to think through whether these are relevant for Tuva (why/why not?) and/or propose some other healthcare or Tuva specific metrics (utilization of downstream data marts/terminology datasets, time to map to CDM, etc). The Cowboy Ventures survey is not gospel but is a good starting point.

GTM strategy: Last call, we discussed your hypothesis (incentive to adopt increases the more utility you get after mapping) and ways to test that (mostly around groupers/terminology datasets). Aaron, you mentioned that now might not be the best time to hire up and invest in an outbound sales/BD, but there are some ways to put more structure around the GTM strategy. If the hypothesis and tests you mentioned a few weeks ago still ring true, we can put a stake in the ground and test that over time to understand what’s working and what’s not. For example, that could look like mapping out the universe of potential partners for different groupers and prioritizing based on utility to different potential ICPs.

GT