---
source_pdf: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Z-M9FPdTWbXj07fJICKS66j9CRbKWmS_az-KN0QI7xc/view"
drive_folder: "Portfolio/Zocalo"
type: portfolio
company: Zocalo
ingested: 2025-12-23
original_filename: "Zocalo (3).gdoc"
---

> **Original:** [View Original PDF](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Z-M9FPdTWbXj07fJICKS66j9CRbKWmS_az-KN0QI7xc/view)

Zocalo

n=25 What did you find surprising from UX (+ or -)?

Lack of motivation impacts their health (sure…)

Gender preferences

Findings from Mariza

Questions around the promodora - pleasantly surprised to their reaction a CHW. Reacted well to the navigator + health/wellness angle. Really liked the idea they could open to and help navigate

People picking the annual plan

$250 out of this individual

$250 - financed with down payment /

$200 upfront day 1

Willingness to apay

Total costs and affordability. How much are they willing to pay? 22/25 have health insurance and they picked the cheapest plan

Prefer annual payment

Demographics in line?

52% saw a doctor for annual checkups? Who were they?

32% did not have a PCP

Same-day appointments vs. pomodoro reaching out?

Licensing process

May only get licensed in CA - July 5

CA - how do we double down on CA and make that successful as possible. 2 or 3 events instead of 1

TX first - 10-week timeframe, phase it out a month

WA next -

Care Model

How do you approach this broadly? Asynchronous / synchronous? Cadence of engagement that is ideally? What are we really be providing?

We want to be the place that you go instead of the shitty place that you have to be

Janette - Ivan

Intake and screening processes and what that looks like

Do you want a team that is going to be helping you go where you want to go?

Promotora wants to do a lot of the selling?

Make promotora the champion rather than you as CEO or Dr. Daniel

Innovate but not at the cost of traditions of our community

Website launch - May 2nd

Event on the ground in LA / SF

Hires

Contract hire firs